---
layout: log 
title: Cooperating and decomposing 
date: 2026-05-18
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* Read *Value-Decomposition Networks For Cooperative Multi-Agent Learning* by Sunehag et al.

## Notes
### Literature
1. One of the *genuine* problems of MARL that I haven't been giving much attention to is the "lazy agent" problem, where some agents don't do anything because more capable agents are present. 
2. This could, however, be a good thing in some situations. For example, say you've got a swarm of... bees. And those bees are attacking a... wasp. You don't want to commit all of your bugs to the wasp, because you might end up carrying out an overkill. What do you do, then? You send a few bees in whilst the others remain on standby.
3. But aren't those standby bees lazy? Aren't you wasting a lot of resources simulating something that in the end doesn't do anything?
4. Ah, here's an important theme: **the centralized approach consistently fails on cooperation problems in practice**. In fact, the centralized approach often leads to the lazy agent problem in the first place. Interesting...
5. One issue here is the inability for agents to distinguish the reward signal when multiple agents are in the picture. This is a significantly more thorny problem than can be assumed initially.
6. *Ahhhhh.* The approach in this paper is to employ a *learned value decomposition network* that attempts to learn how each agent contributes to the reward. Of course *DeepMind* wrote this paper! 
7. Hmmm... interesting. They employ a duelling layer in order to train a joint Q-network.
8. "The main assumption we make and exploit is that the joint action-value function for the system can be additively decomposed into value functions across agents" - how does this enforce synergy? When one action of given agent is made more effective by the fact that another action of a separate agent has been made?
9. A recurrent network seems essential for problems of partial observability. I vaguely remember reading about how this ought to be done, with a fixed series of action state tuples instead of independent tuples. 
10. Okay, I see what's going on here: you're learning individual Q-networks that are combined in order to build a single large Q-network.
11. **Agent invariance**: when agents are parameterized in a way that they respond in the same way to inputs. 
12. These are... *really limited* problems. I'm curious to see if any of this work has been applied to problems that are even close to being complex.

### Systems
1. Randomly woke up at 3AM, so I decided to do some Rust problems. 
  
## Remarks
1. I love how I can now distinguish who writes a paper by the approach. If the basic approach of the paper is to use a function approximator to approximate something at more levels of approximation, it's probably DeepMind. :) 
2. Feeling a little unwell today - have a monstrous headache.