---
layout: log 
title: Regret as a geometric problem
date: 2026-04-21
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
1. More reading from *Prediction, Learning and Games* by Cesa-Bianchi and Lugosi.

## Notes
### Literature
1. Okay, this is *dense*. Really deep stuff, though. Let's try and go through it:
    * The point of having multiple experts is that you can set up your forecaster to maintain a vector whose components are the cumulative regret relative to expert $$i$$. It's basically a state tracking tool.
    * Your goal is to take the average of this regret vector and set in a way that the *average* of your components is in a target region. Here, it's where the regret is zero/negative.
    * The basic idea of Blackwell's approachability is to look at where your average is, find the closest point to the edge of that safe zone, draw a line from your current location to that closest point and then aim your next move so that on average, you move towards that line. 
2. You know what your goal and target region is - that of zero regret. As long as your loss measure for regret is sensibly shaped, you don't need to predict the future or know what the environment you're up against (or the opponent you're dealing with, I suppose) will do. You can just aim at where you want to be and then, on average, you'll get there.
3. *Ah*, I get this. This is an optimization view of decision making where you're choosing strategies that satisfy the Blackwell condition - this guarantees that the regret grows sublinearly. 
4. I've noticed that the power of this frame of thinking - the fact that your underlying sequence has no distribution and can even represent the choices of an adversary that is meant to work against you. You don't *need* to waste time thinking about how your opponent thinks. You're hedging against all of their possible strategies.
5. Oh, I've got the core intuition now! You're hedging so that you aren't much worse than the best expert! It's a safety condition!
6. Good chapter. Hard, but illuminating. 

On another note,
* Game theory writeup is done. Thank goodness for that! Now I can move on to actually doing some research, for goodness sake. :) 

## Remarks
* The writeup took a lot of time, but was genuinely really useful in consolidating my understanding of what it is that I'm trying to learn. I had *none* of this intuition before... and now that I've written it all down, I've actually got a logical representation in my mind of what it is that I'm doing here. Really happy with this.
* Now, however, I need to start implementing. 