---
layout: log 
title: Bibliothèque national de France
date: 2026-06-14
math: True
tags: [deep-learning]
---

## Summary
1. More work on the generalized environment for the autoencoder.

## Notes
### Deep learning
1. Gridworld wasn't particularly difficult to implement. In fact, I thought it was probably a bit too easy - what would a latent space for gridworld actually look like? How could we diagnosably tell whether two points on a grid was from a latent space or not?
2. I decided to strip out most of the gridworld logic and build something that could easily be extended for something more complex. I implemented walls in the previous version, but this is too simple a game to get anything novel out of. 
3. **Pursuit-evasion games** are just gridworld implementations where the goal can move. With the addition of grid cell types (walls which prevent movement and "lava" that punish movement), it's possible to wrap up some really complex dynamics into a single configurable game. *That* will be the target here. 
4. It's worth mentioning that pursuit-evasion games are in general very rich sources of study when it comes to adversarial situations. This is within the theme of adversarial modelling whilst also being a good way of studying world models. 
5. Much of my work today was software architecture and now I've got a reasonably extensible version of gridworld. I should put out a technical note on this. 

## Remarks
1. Spent some time working at the Bibliothèque national de France today. This is a really, really nice city to study in - I can see why so many excellent scholars have come from here. 
2. The library itself - la Salle Ovale - was absolutely gorgeous. I didn't manage to get a desk seat but this wasn't so much a problem. 