---
layout: log 
title: Writing up
date: 2026-04-10
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
1. Continued my write-up of my *Lessons from classical RL*. 
2. Started reading *A Unified Game-Theoretic Approach to Multiagent Reinforcement Learning* by Lanctot et al. 
3. A little bit of work on software engineering - just some reading whilst on public transport. 

## Notes 
### RL experiments 
1. Spent a bit of time running more experiments and working on my write-up. I'm really glad I spent some time on the classical RL: trying to make it work has been *really* illuminating. Has it been fun? No. I wanted to move onto the deep reinforcement learning stuff as quickly as possible, but you've got to put in the work. A decade of being deep into physics teaches you that.  

### Literature review 
1. Environment overfitting. That's a term I know from experiments, but not so much as a concept. It makes perfect sense that naive RL approaches to adversarial problems can result in overfitting. Would fictitious self-play or population based methods be a useful way of dealing with this? The authors also note that the issue of overfitting to your opponents becomes worse in the presence of partial observability. 
2. The immediate most useful part of this paper is the introduction of a metric for quantifying the correlation effects between two policies. 
3. **Coordination problem**: when each agent in a MARL setting much synchronize their actions with the others to achieve a shared goal, but struggle to do so because each agents optimal strategy depends on the strategies of others. 
4. **Centralized training for decentralized execution:** where agents are trained using global information (state, actions, and rewards) to learn coordinated strategies, but act independently during deployment using only local observations. You essentially have a centralized critic that has full access to the environment and can *accurately* assess the quality of action, whilst the agents themselves operate with their own policies and relative observations.
5. It took me a *while* to parse the definition of the Double Oracle algorithm... and I literally read the paper yesterday! For my own benefit, here is a very rough plain English description:
    1. Subgame: a smaller game composed of a subset of strategies available in the full game. Instead of using every possible move, the agents start with a tiny subset of simple moves.
    2. They play the subgame until they solve it by finding an equilibrium.
    3. Each player then looks through the entire list of moves to find a best response against that equilibrium. 
    4. They add those moves to their small game and repeat the process.
    5. The game keeps growing until neither player can find a new move that improves their result.
6. "In this work, we aim to discover new strategies through learning. However, instead of computing exact best responses, we compute approximate best responses using reinforcement learning." Thank you for being explicit! A policy space oracle is an RL agent that represents the best policy against another policy. 
7. I can see how this is a pure generalization of the ideas that are encounter in self-play and population-based methods. It is, basically, exactly the same thing. 
8. The terminology is *all over the place* with this paper. Oracle? Policy? Subgame? Strategy profile... this is the first time that jargon has really started to mess with me. 
9. Alas, I ran out of time with this paper. It's probably one of the hardest papers I've had to read so far.
  

## Remarks 
* I haven't been logging this, but I've been spending a bit of time on internalizing RL theory. This is mostly just starting from the base definitions of RL and playing around to derive new results - nothing serious or disciplined, but in general something that I think might come in handy for exposition. 
* I really need to do some detailed study on game theory. Going through that formal definition of the double oracle algorithm was painful. I'm sitting in a hot chocolate shop and clutching my head in agony.