---
layout: log 
title: The sunk cost
date: 2026-05-06
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* Finished reading *A Survey and Critique of Multiagent Deep Reinforcement Learning* by Hernandez-Leal et al. 
* More RL experiments. 

## Notes
### Literature 
1. The paper categorizes MARL literature into four basic categories:
    * Analysis of emergent behaviours,
    * Learning communication - this is where agents are taught how to share relevant information via defined communication protocols,
    * Learning cooperation, where agents are actually able to work together to achieve a given objective,
    * Agents modelling agents - I suppose this is an extension of world modelling.
2. My first impression here: *surely the last of these is a superset of the first two?*
3. **Malthusian reinforcement learning**: An extension of self-play to population dynamics. This is really interesting... I've seen approaches where populations are culled regularly, but this is a more condensed approach to improving robustness. 
4. This paper includes a list of papers. Damn. In fact, the basic summary for each of the algorithms provided in the paper is really useful.
5. Holy shit, this part is *awesome*: there's a game that RL has been used to solve that requires agents to develop an emergent language to solve a task (a signalling game). What the hell! That's fantastic!
6. The rest of the paper is pretty much a compendium of algorithms. I've skimmed this, but I want to tie it into the core MARL algorithms that I'll be studying over the rest of the week.
7. A summary of best practices for MARL and things to be aware of:
    * Experience replay buffers are an important part of MARL, but the standard memory tuple is not enough. 
    * **Centralized learning with decentralized execution**: the agents train together but operate independently. 
    * Parameter sharing - training a single network where agents share their weights.
    * Recurrent networks for memory capability.
    * Overfitting: this happens in single agent RL, but also happens in different contexts in MARL. 

### RL experiments
1. The RL experiments are going well. It's a really nice feeling setting up an experiment and watching it buzz along as you write up your log entry for the day. :)
2. I'm currently tweaking the layer size of a single layered NN. I'm not too interested in making the network deeper, because I'm not really focused on the deepness of the network. However, I do anticipate that I'll have to add some depth if my network doesn't get anywhere close to solving the problem. There are just a lot more things we can try before that.
3. I've hit a wall with vanilla REINFORCE. I think I'm just going to jump straight to the baselines version. A lot of time can be sunk here...
