---
layout: log 
title: Playing games whilst sick
date: 2026-04-12
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
1. Read Chapter 1 of *Introduction to Game Theory* by Osbourne.
2. 

## Notes
### Literature review
1. A very important note here - the basic condition of a payoff function is that it allows the  *ordinal* representation of actions. The numbers, like reward and energy and most other quantities relating to reference, *don't actually mean anything*. 
    * What does this mean for reinforcement learning environments? That, in a strategic situation, the only reward value that matters is one that *clearly* allows for agents/policies to be ordered. 
    * (Easier said than done, of course!)
2. There is a really interesting framing of how the consistency of rational choice depends on the actions you have available: "*if you choose the same dish from the menu of your favorite lunch spot whenever there are no specials then, regardless of your preferences, it is inconsistent for you to choose some other item from the menu on a day when there is an off-menu special*".
    * Basically, unless the payoff of choosing the special is larger than the payoff for choosing your normal favourite, the addition of the special shouldn't alter your choices. 
    * Mathematically, if you always choose A over B, there is no circumstance that you'll ever choose B *regardless* of the set size.
    * **This doesn't necessarily hold in practice**. What if C was so alarming and so bad a choice that it would cause the actor to err on the side of caution just by its mere presence? It is in circumstances like this that rational choice breaks down.

### RL experiments  

## Remarks
1. **Note to boss employer**: I'm not actually playing games whilst sick. :) 
2. However, I am sick. Had a bit of a fever last night and now I'm curled in bed feeling like death. Today will necessarily be a slow day.
3. Update at 3PM - I just woke up after a six hour nap. I feel much better. I think I'll slowly get some work done today. 