---
layout: log 
title: Transformers, my old foe
date: 2026-07-13
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
1. Went back to *Attention is All You Need* by Vaswani et. al. 2017.
2. Spent a bit of time reading [Language Models and the Dataset](https://classic.d2l.ai/chapter_recurrent-neural-networks/language-models-and-dataset.html?utm_source=chatgpt.com) from Dive into Deep Learning.

## Literature review
1. I intend on absolutely mastering the content of this paper this week. I might go through it a few times during the course of this.
2. The absolute essence of the transformer is *parallelism*. There may be benefits in keeping models recurrent, but the benefits are completely outclassed by the raw parallelism that the new capacity for parallelism enables. 
2. The basic idea of the bitter lesson appears to apply here - the bias of recurrence is removed so that the model - the meta-method - can learn the associations itself. Again and again, we see that the most powerful models those that allow for maximal generalizabilty and brute compute. 
3. The "continuous representations" discussed in this paper ($$\mathbf{z}_1 \ldots \mathbf{z}_N$$) are just latent variable representations, right? That include more context from the overall sequence? It is the feedforward network that does the nasty work of combining all of these latent variables into a refined, useful description. 
4. I'm trying to build a proper mental model of the encoder in my head. 
    * The stacked layers allow sequential processing for increasingly more abstract and complex representations.
    * Attention is just a graph that maps how much each part of the sequence relates to each other part.
    * The position-wise fully-connected feedforward network is a network that *is applied to every representation in the sequence*. Got it - it treats every token independently. Oh, that makes much more sense! You have this highly compounded representation of the input string that you put through a neural network in order to refine it. Got it!
5. I'm stuck on the purpose of a residual connection and I've ran out of time. Oof! Tomorrow we begin.  

## Foundation models
1. Started reading about language models. Nothing too extensive, just enough to give me some intuition on how languages are generated.
2. Simple enough: you have a model that provides the likelihood of a sequence and you can generate reasonable sequences by simply sampling from the conditional probability per character. 
3. This is *very* general stuff. Any kind of sequence can be represented like this... not just languages, although languages benefit from having a massive dataset. 
4. At this level, language models are trained by 
    * Taking a large corpus of words,
    * Finding the relative frequency of singleton words (deep), pairs (deep learning) and so on.
5. The issue is that when you add multiple words (e.g. the frequency of "deep learning" versus the frequency of just "deep"), you'll find yourself heavily limited by your dataset. 
 
## Remarks 
1. I'm going to split my work into two themes:
    * Monday, Tuesday, Friday and Saturday will be my foundation models track. The papers I read and the work I do during these days will be based on foundation models.  
    * Wednesday, Thursday and Sunday will go into the world model track.
2. There's so much to do, but plenty of time to do it. This is a game of discipline. 