---
layout: log 
title: On the mend
date: 2026-03-20
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* Read *Soft Actor-Critic: Off-Policy Maximum Entropy Deep Reinforcement Learning with a Stochastic Actor* by Haarnoja et al. 

## Notes
1. **Maximum entropy reinforcement learning**: A framework where an agent attempts to maximise both expected reward *as well as* the policy entropy, or as the paper puts it: to succeed at the task whilst acting as randomly as possible.
    * This is really interesting. In a sense, this is multi-objective optimization, which will naturally yield a Pareto front. 
    * On the other hand, I can see why this might work really well. You're essentially forcing your policy space to take on parameters that *don't lead to policy collapse* at the cost of raw expected reward. This could guard against environment exploitation or reward hacking, right?
2. Ah, right: you can't really use a experience replay buffer with a policy gradient method - this is something that I've only seen in Q-learning. Doesn't experience batching offer a reasonable counterpart, though? I guess in a sense that it *is* expensive given that it relies on parallelization, but still...
3. Alright, the kicker: **augment the reward maximisation objective with an entropy maximisation objective**. This is what the paper refers to as **soft policy iteration**. Whilst this alters the RL object, the original objective can be recovered with a temperature parameter. This is *awesome*. You're basically given the option to anneal the policy to try and obtain the true maximum reward policy - this is precisely the kind of technique that allows for rare state sampling in computational statistical physics. Beautiful, beautiful stuff!
4. To summarise, then - Soft Actor-Critic is an *off-policy maximum entropy actor-critic approach*. 
5. Something interesting here: I've been using policy evaluation and policy iteration as basic laws of the field, but it just so happens that in complex deep reinforcement learning problems it's actually impractical to run either of these steps to completion. It's worth keeping this in mind.
6. I realise that the inclusion of the entropy term in the loss function actually carries out a similar process to target policy smoothing. 
7. Right, the basic process of soft actor critic is to
    * Apply the soft Bellman operator in order to obtain the soft Q-value of the policy. This is soft policy evaluation step.
    * Generate a new policy that is updated towards the exponential of the new soft Q function. This is an *optimization problem* - you're minimising with respect to the KL divergence.
    * Repeat these two steps. According to *Soft Policy Iteration*, you will eventually get the optimum policy.
8. There are of course a number of simplifications in the algorithm with respect to the theorems used to define it. For one, the partition function doesn't show up!
9. As expected from the preamble, a replay buffer is used for sample efficiency.
10. **Reparameterization trick**: a technique used to make the actor differentiable (and thus trainable).
11. Again, the double Q-learning trick discussed in yesterday's paper is also used here.

### Reinforcement learning experiments
1. I rewrote my Markov decision process class to be as faithful a representation to the mathematical formulation of MDPs as possible. In fact, I think I'm going to keep this as a basic principle of RL implementations: *maintain mathematical faithfulness throughout and use helper methods to obtain user relevant quantities*.

## Remarks
* Felt rough this morning, but I'm definitely on the mend. Didn't do as much work as I wanted to, but hopefully tomorrow I'll mostly be back to my usual self. 