---
layout: log 
title: I'm rusty!
date: 2026-04-28
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning, systems]
---

## Summary
* Even more work on last week's literature review... this one is lagging, still.
* Halfway through implementing `REINFORCE`. 
* Started learning Rust. 

## Notes
### Literature 
1. Ooof. Big section today! Finally got down my notes on the mathematical structure of no-regret learning. This was really useful in getting my head around what I read about last week, but it required a ton of notes over two pieces of literature.
2. I do need to start reading the papers that I've planned to read for this week. I have time, but not nearly enough...

### RL experiments
1. I'm very used to using PyTorch for supervised learning. Who isn't? I am not, however, so used to using PyTorch for reinforcement learning. Today was a nice eye-opener on how complicated it actually is to carry out this kind of calculation. I'm halfway through building a `REINFORCE` class, though: this should be done by tomorrow.

### Systems 
1. Started learning Rust. I can already tell that I'm going to really like this language. :) 
2. Some notes for reference:
    * Create a project using `cargo new`,
    * Build a project using `cargo build`, with a release version being built with `cargo build --release`: the executable built in the latter is optimized and allows for proper benchmarking.
    * Build and run a project in one step using `cargo run`,
    * Build a project to check for errors using `cargo check` and
    * the result of the build is stored in the `target/debug` folder.
3. I like how everything is so neat and structured in this language. Even the basic design of `cargo` is really, really usable. I'm also really intrigued by how the language focuses so heavily on safety. 
4. It will take me a while to understand expressions, or at the very least build them into my mental model of the language. So... if there's no semicolon, it is an expression, whcih means that it returns a value. Presumably only the un-semicoloned line is returned? Hm.
5. The rest of the language is lovely so far. Borrowing is the next chapter though, and I've heard some scary things about this part of Rust...

## Remarks
1. Rust will the fifth programming language that I've done work in, joining Python, C, C++ and MATLAB. I've dabbled around in countless languages, but this one is really agreeing with me. Need to see if I can convince my work to let me use Rust for something. :)