---
layout: log 
title: absolutely rinsed
date: 2026-04-30
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning, systems, game-theory]
---

## Summary
* Reviewed *Markov games as a framework for multi-agent reinforcement learning* by Littman again.
* Started watching some lectures on game theory.
* More work on learning Rust (although I really didn't get so far here.)

## Notes
### Literature 
1. Again, the difference in formulation is quite straightforward: a function over a cartestion product of actions over just a single action. 
2. Ooh, interesting! The idea of using a discount factor as a "probability of the game ending" is discussed here. I encountered this in the Dreamer papers the first time - I didn't realise that this was an established way of assessing the game. I'm guessing that this is a really common way of actually interpreting discounts...
3. Holy crap, it's *so* much easier reading this paper after refreshing game theory ideas. Even terminology like "dominated" has a new meaning when considering context.
4. Went up to go to the toilet in the middle of writing this and had to take about forty minutes to recover from the exertion. Yeesh.
5. On a functional level, the main thing that this paper introduces is higher dimensionality for the value functions which result from the non-stationarity of the environment. The solution here is foundationally to calculate a minimax solution, which is - as I've just realised - another way of denoting a Nash equilibrium in a two-player zero-sum game.
6. What it *doesn't* do, however, is discuss the problem in terms of no-regret dynamics. Interesting, right? Does the algorithm actually map to a no-regret algorithm in the end?
7. Also, the main limitation here is that this formulation is pretty much constrained to two-player zero-sum games. 

### Theory
1. A new section based on studying theoretical ideas that lend to the study of complex adaptive systems. Right now I've decided to study *game theory*, because I've realised how incredibly powerful the field is when attempting to reason about the kinds of emergent interactions that take place when studying reinforcement learning.
2. **All** of single-agent reinforcement learning can be considered a game against nature. Likewise, it is complications that arise from breaking this assumption that yield the complexities that most advanced reinforcement learning systems attempt to mitigate. 

### Systems
1. Started reading about ownership system in Rust. I'm not going to lie, this is going completely over my head right now. I'm probably just going to give it rest for today and pick this back up tomorrow if my fever dies down. 

## Remarks
1. I've been feverish the entire day. At one point I fell asleep whilst writing my notes on the paper and had a really weird fever dream about applying game theory to fast food delivery routing. Should I take a break from work for a bit?
2. Nah. No rest for the stupid. We keep going!