---
layout: log 
title: The Dreaming
date: 2026-04-01
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* Finished reading *Dream to Control: Learning Behaviors by Latent Imagination* by Hafner et al. 
* Finished experiment harness for RL experiments. 

## Notes
### Literature
1. Ah, I see what's going on here.
    * The agent learns a world model from the trajectories that it observes. This is what they refer to in the paper as the latent dynamics model, and roughly speaking it represents the transition function from the Markov decision process. 
    * An additional set of networks - the action and value networks - are predicted from the latent trajectories generated by the previous model. The value model additionally optimizes for Bellman consistency - presumably this is where you adjust the model so that it aligns with the recursive conditions specified by the Bellman equation.
    * The learned action model is then executed within the real environment to collect new experience, which starts the loop anew. 
2. Alright, so roughly speaking - you're using a learned representation of the full Markov decision process. This feels eerily like the development that I saw when I was studying graph neural networks, where higher levels of expressivity were baked into the model by simply employing function approximators for more and more GNN functions (culminating in the GN framework).
3. I can see a similar basic technique to deep-Q learning here, where the value function targets are kept as stationary for the purposes of training. 
4. Interesting - there's an optional observation model that can be learned from the environment as well. This hearkens back to the world model approach proposed by Ha and Schmidhuber: that was *essentially* what they did there. However, the use of an observation model has dramatic consequences on the results - the replaced state estimation models described perform *much* better than the Dreamer with just the reward. 
5. The essence of this paper is the application of representation learning - or learning a model of a real world phenomenon in latent space - to the reinforcement learning problem. By gradually replacing each part of the MDP and agent with accurate and fast approximations, you can generate thousands of parameters simultaneously and predict beyond the current reward tuple. 
6. I wonder how this might change if a graph neural network was used to represent the world model? GNNs are excellent at representation learning, after all. I'm sure that this has been done already.

### RL Experiments 
* Experiments completed. Results? Not so good. All the algorithms do the same thing!
* I think that this is due to noisiness in my RL environment. This will be completed tomorrow.

## Remarks 
1. Dreamer is another idea that just floors me with how simple it is, but how powerful it can be. *Amazing* research.