---
layout: log 
title: Standing in the middle of a train, wasting time
date: 2026-06-26
math: True
tags: [deep-learning]
---

## Summary
1. Started reading *Tutorial on Variational Autoencoders* by Doersch.

## Notes
### Deep learning
1. All of this makes perfect sense - the latent variable $z$ is a sample from an easy-to-manage probability distribution like a Gaussian. You can then learn how to convert this condensed representation into a more complex non-Gaussian distribution to represent highly complex data.
2. One interesting aspect here is the etymology of "latent". The example provided in the paper is great: if you want to predict handwriting, there is a ton of information hidden in the image that can represent the important information for generating samples. For example, the speed of the stroke can be represented in the width of the line, which in turn can be infer the presence of sharper turns in the line. 
3. Ah, okay - the encoder describes an image as a range of possibilities. This is a distribution which is trained to organise so that similar items are clustered together. The training takes place by having the model take a random labelled sample... right?
4. No, previous point is wrong. There are no random labelled samples being used: this is definitely an unsupervised learning approach. 
    * The encoder takes an image and describes it as a range of probabilities (defined as a mean and a standard deviation). 
    * Similar images are forced to be clustered together, overlapping so that they can be blended. (how?)
    * A random sample can be obtained from this generated map, which in turn can be used to reconstruct the original data from a decoder. Interesting...
5. Alright... so the KL divergence loss basically forces the model to keep points clustered?
6. Need to spend a bit of time sitting down and analysing this paper, eh...

## Remarks 
1. It was *hard* working today. Trains were cancelled left/right/center and there were many delays - did most of my reading staring at my phone whislt standing up in the middle of a carriage. And the heat! Damned heat.