---
layout: log 
title: Studied too hard
date: 2026-07-14
math: True
tags: [foundation-models]
---

## Summary
1. More work to thoroughly understand the transformer architecture. 

## Literature review
1. I'm going through this paper with a fine-toothed comb. I want to be able to understand every single sentence written... which is hard because the paper itself is brief and to the point.
2. Mental model time.
    * You have a sequence of characters and you carry out an input embedding on each one. The input embedding here is a *learned representation*. You're using a neural network to map the representation of the input $$x$$ into a a 512-D vector. You're also adding a positional encoding, which works by adding a vector that inherently carries positional data to the original encoding. Naturally, the input embedding vector and the positional embedding vector have the same length. In the paper, the positional encoding is represented as a sine wave.
    * You pass these augmented input representations into the encoder and decoder stacks. But wait... what the hell is going on with the injection of the inputs *midway through* the outputs? What function does that serve? What even are the output embeddings? There's a causal shift here that is getting to me...
    * Oh. I see. There's a difference between *training* a transformer and *using* a transformer. How didn't I see this? 
3. Okay, I've clarified this. Step by step, a transformer *works* by
    * Initializing the encoder. You take your target sentence, process the sequence in parallel and save a set of hidden values (by key and value). This is *it* for the encoder.
    * You kickstart the decoder sending it a start key. This triggers the decoder to start generating words sequentially, *using* the hidden vectors that have been generated by the encoder. Essentially the decoder takes the embedded output token, combines it with the saved encoder vectors (by cross-attention, it looks like) and then predicts the likely next word.
    * After this, it's the autoregressive prediction stage. Take the outputted vector, feed it back into the decoder and gradually obtain your full sentence. 
    * This can keep going until the stop key is sent.
4. In *training*, you provide the completed output vector, all at once. This is what allows transformers to train very, very quickly. 

## Remarks 
1. I am ceasing work for today. I have an extremely painful stomach ache - I don't feel well at all. 