---
layout: log 
title: Mistakes and misconceptions
date: 2026-07-18
math: True
tags: [foundation-models]
---

## Summary
1. Revisited *The Illustrated Transformer* by Jay Alammar and some other scattered resources to get to the bottom of how transformers actually operate.

## Literature review
1. ~~I think the absolute key to understanding how transformers operate is to realise that there are *placeholder values* in the input. The encoded vectors fly through the transformer and eventually are processed into a latent representation. The last word, for an *encoder-only* transformer, is a placeholder.~~
2. ~~The placeholder is then decoded into the most likely word following the sentence. How.. is that done, exactly?~~
3. Wait, I'm completely wrong. This is how a *specific* kind of transformer works... not the transformers seen in *Attention is All You Need*. Okay, that makes things a little bit more confusing... 
4. Right, let's map this out again.
    1. The transformer takes an input sentence through the entire network,
    2. The final layer output looks at the position of the very last token and generates a probability distribution over the entire vocabulary specifically for the next position,
    3. Once the word is chosen, it's simply attached to the end of the text. 
    4. The model runs again with the next word.
5. Still really confusing.
6. I see: the kind of transformer described in 3B1B is a decoder only transformer. That... took me some time to realise, eh.
7. I'm getting there, I think. This is quite a complex beast.