---
layout: log
title: The flight plan
date: 2026-03-07
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* The **flight plan**:
    * Carry out the literature review for this week, and then add to it with
        * Continuous Control with Deep Reinforcement Learning by Lillicrap et al. 
        * Asynchronous Methods for Deep Reinforcement Learning by Mnih et al. 
        * Trust Region Policy Optimization by Schulman et al. 
        * ~~High-Dimensional Continuous Control Using Generalized Advantage Estimation by Schulman et al.~~
        * ~~Proximal Policy Optimization Algorithms by Schulman et al.~~
    * Work through *Effective Python* as long as I have battery on my iPad. ;)

## Notes
1. I won't really be taking any notes on the literature review today - that will be in the literature review section. Anything here will detail my Python stuff.

### Literature review
1Alas, it happens that I have run out of time. I'm going to dump my review of Trust Policy Optimization in this section and then come back to it to review for next week. 

### Trust Region Policy Optimization - Schulman et al. 

All of the theory that the last paper freed us from has come back to hit us full force with this paper. This one is *quite* mathematical. I'll continue after a fifteen minute break. The air hostess, like some kind of angel, is coming up with the drinks trolley and I damn well need a coffee!

... and we proceed as usual. Trust policy optimization is a specific method that is employed to optimize *large* action policies. The paper starts off by comparing gradient-free methods with gradient-based methods, where gradients-techniques are touted as being the best-in-class for a variety of complex control tasks. On the other hand, gradient-based methods have been very successful at working with policies with enormous parameters. The trust policy optimization algorithm attempts to marry the strength of the iterative gradient-free approaches with the inherently scalable gradient-based approach.

The derivation is as follows. Starting from the basic definitions of a reinforcement learning problem, 
1. The authors justify an expression that describes the accumulated advantage that one policy might have over another policy, and then rewrite that expression to demonstrate the basic idea of policy iteration with regards to policy parameters. Essentially, given a policy, how can you generate a *superior* policy by just a change to its parameters? The expression provides a metric by which this improvement can be measured.
2. In theory, the expression that the authors derive can be optimized directly. This is shown to be intractable for situations of interest. They thus introduce a local approximation where they ignore visitation fréquences of the new policy (and just approximate with the current policy). In light of this approximation, they manage to show that with a *small* change in the parameters of the current policy, one can approximate a *policy* iteration that is guaranteed to better than it. In a sense, this is somewhat like a *quasistatic* process in thermodynamics: you can get to any point in a phase diagram in a stable way if you just take infinitesimal steps towards it. 
3. We cannot take infinitesimal steps. We still want to go as far as possible. The problem, then, becomes one of sizing. How large can you make this policy parameter change?

## Remarks
1. I am going to be stuck in a fast moving object for about 9 hours. With no wifi. This sounds like *amazing* time to dedicate to a deep work session. Above is the plan that I've come up with. Let's see how far we can get with it! 
2. There's a chance that I might fall asleep or spend a lot of time reading instead, but it's worth being ambitious. Let's get this show ~~on~~ in the ~~road~~ air!
3. I was defeated, unfortunately, by my battery. I probably should have charged my iPad before getting on the plane. I could have done it - I still have about four hours left of the flight! However, as I type this I am on 1% charge. This is strangely emotional.