---
layout: log 
title: Mastering the dream
date: 2026-04-05
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* Read *Mastering Diverse Domains through World Models* by Hafner et al. 
* Spent a bit more time studying parallelism and concurrency in Effective Python. 

## Notes
### Literature
1. It looks like DreamerV3 is distinguished by having a stronger capability in "imagination", where its world model is capable of generating accurate predictions of actual future events. 
2. "Applied out of the box, Dreamer is the first algorithm to collect diamonds in Minecraft from scratch without human data or curricula." - uhm. Not sure why this is impressive because I have never played Minecraft, but this certainly sounds very impressive!
    * Ah, I see! Minecraft is a randomly generated world and obtaining diamonds is a complicated step that requires a good deal of long-term planning. This is also a major challenge due to the complexity of classification, as lapis lazuli and diamond look similar and non-trivial inference is required to learn what the difference between these two are. Shoutout to my younger cousin Lowgithan for helping me out with this.
3. The main challenge being addressed here is the issue of hyperparameter tuning - there *are* specialized algorithms like PPO that can be exceptionally useful in a variety of environments, but the process of tuning hyperparameters and the subsequent experimentation required can be monstrously expensive. Dreamer uses fixed hyperparameters and outperforms expert algorithms in a variety of different fields. 
4. "The algorithm is based on the idea of learning a world model that equips the agent with rich perception and the ability to imagine the future" - is this too different from Dreamer V1? Is there a new capability here or is this just a more powerful means of using "imagination" train an algorithm? From what I can see after reading the paper, the differences here are in scale and stability.
5. Dreamer V3 operates outside of the box, without expert data or even curricula. *Damn*.
6. I just realised - Dreamer uses an augmented set of components to the basic actor-critic setup: it operates as an world-actor-critic algorithm instead. Nice!
7. Oooh. Interesting! The world model has *quite* a different structure to the Dreamer V2 world model. 
    * Sequence model - similar to Dreamer V2, a recurrent state-space model. Basically encodes the history of past actions and recurrent states to provide temporal context to future actions. 
    * Encoder - Maps real space inputs (sensory data) to latent space. This is a convolutional neural network, which makes sense - CNNs are good at converting grid-based data to feature-rich hierarchical representations
    * Dynamics predictor - Predicts the next state as a latent representation 
    * Reward predictor - Estimates the reward from a specific latent representation 
    * Continue predictor - Follows the same role as in Dreamer V2's discount factor predictor. 
    * Decoder - Maps from latent space to real space. Again, another CNN.
8. The actor and critic learn purely from the world model. Makes sense, this is what happened in the last two versions too.
9. A new feature of Dreamer V3 is that it handles a large range of inputs and corresponding reward signals. The paper details a custom loss function that calculates `symlog` error, a combination of mean square error and symmetric logarithmic scaling. I guess the issue here is that without Symlog, games that provide a reward of 1 seem completely disproportionate to games that provide rewards of ~100000. Symlog squashes the reward scaling - there is no need to keep tuning hyperparameters when this component has been added to the formulation. Awesome!
10. This stuff is *complicated*. I don't think I can really get accustomed with this paper without actively trying to build the Dreamer architectures from scratch. 
11. Encoders and decodes are basic components of variational autoencoders. The essence of this paper demonstrates the *real* difference between the basic VAE and a world model. VAEs are just the *eyes* of the agent - they don't have any real capabilities of thought built into them. Thought is dynamic... which is why a *world model includes considerable mechanisms for representing dynamic trajectories*, of which memory is a foundational component. 

### Systems  
1. Read *Item 55* - whew, that was a long one. 
2. All of that to say that using `deque` and `Lock()` is less useful than using a `Queue`!
3. Still, all very useful stuff. The main points from this item are
    * `Queue` is inherently thread-safe and `get()` is highly efficient. Manual locks are no longer necessary when using the `Queue`.
    * Setting a `maxsize` on the `Queue` prevents memory exhaustion, which is really useful.
4. Overall, if coordinating threads then *just use a* `Queue`!
5. *Item 56* is a little easier to follow and introduces some useful terminology.
    * **Fan-out/in**: The process of generating concurrent threads (fan-out) and then waiting for them to finish (fan in) before moving on.
6. The core point of this item was the highlight that most complex programs require some level of concurrency sooner or later.   

## Remarks
1. Back from Manchester today. I miss being on holiday already - it's quite rough going home when you have an amazing partner and are in the middle of a long-distance relationship. :(  