---
layout: log
title: Sick day
date: 2026-01-26
math: True
tags: [deep-learning]
---

## Summary
* Read *The Hardware Lottery* by Sara Hooker.
* Read *The Bitter Lesson* by Richard Sutton.

## Notes
### The Hardware Lottery
* This was an enlightening essay in a number of ways for me. I'm currently looking into probabilistic hardware as a means of solving some nasty problems that I've come across at work. The idea that a "hardware is only economically viable if the lifetime of the use case lasts more than three years" is a really, *really* useful metric to think about.
* *The Hardware Lottery* was written before the rise of large language models, before the dramatic shift in attitude towards scaling that is best characterised in [The Scaling Hypothesis](https://gwern.net/scaling-hypothesis#link-bibliography-section) by Gwern. This is an interesting retrospective.

### The Bitter Lesson
* A classic and something that I've heard about a lot in the few months that I've been working in artificial intelligence. 
* The key here is that when **search** and **learning** are backed up with enormous amounts of compute, they typically tend to demolish methods that use human judgement. There are three examples of this: chess, go, speech recognition and computer vision. The essay also mentions that search and learning are arbitrarily scalable, which supports the application of ever higher amounts of compute. 
* The last paragraph of the Bitter Lesson is also somewhat inspiring, where our goal as researchers and engineers becomes less about solving the problem but building general frameworks where problems may be solved.
* "Building in how we think is not beneficial in the long run... we want AI agents that can discover like we can, not which contain what we have discovered."

## Remarks
* Didn't feel so good today morning - took a sick day. I wasn't really up for reading a technical paper so I decided to read a few relevant essays instead. 
* ... I'll be honest, it took me about two hours to get through the first one. :)