---
layout: log 
title: En guarde!
date: 2026-03-27
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* Finished *Dueling Network Architectures for Deep Reinforcement Learning* by Wang et al. 

## Notes
### Literature
1. This is the first paper that I've read that is explicit in introducing a new *architecture* for the problem.
2. The goal here is to build a better estimator for $$Q$$: the essence of this paper is that it separates the state values and the advantage estimates. Interesting... I was assuming at this point that the latter depended on the former?
3. Ah, I see what's going on here. Normally the state and actions are combined within a single network: there's no differentiation of either. In this kind of architecture, the state value is calculated separately **advantage**, which is action specific. Note: I had a misconception earlier: whilst the advantage *is* derived from the value function, it can be *estimated* separately.
4. The authors motivate this by explaining that the states can be assigned value independent of the action, saying that it's useful in cases where there are states where actions might not have a relevant effect. The example given here (driving) is really useful: for most of a car journey, you don't expect your actions to have any real benefit. 
5. So you can separate the actor the critic. However, in the critic, you can separate the value and the advantage. Got it!
6. Damn, this paper came at the perfect time - I've read all of the prerequisites for this!  
7. Alright, it's basically a convolutional network that splits into two different streams. Sounds like a pain to engineer...   
8. Why is this called a *duelling* architecture though?
    * You have two streams - one that calculates the advantage for an action and one that calculates the value.
    * You *can't* determine $$Q$$ from the basic expression of the advantage function. This doesn't work because $$V$$ and $$A$ can't be determined uniquely from a summand.
    * To deal with this, you essentially normalise the advantage over a mean of 0 by removing the mean advantage from $$A$$ before adding it to $$V$$. 
    * I'm guessing the duelling aspect comes from how the two streams essentially compete for a better estimate of the value before being combined. I think. I'm actually not sure in the slightest. 
9. The discussions of the scales of the value function over the q-function is quite interesting - I've seen that there's a significant difference between the two, but I wasn't aware that this was a general thing.
10. Can't imagine how much of a pain this would be to get up and running on `torch`... 

## Remarks
1. Another paper read on the train to London. :)