---
layout: log
title: Last entry for a good while
date: 2026-03-06
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* Read *Deep Reinforcement Learning with Double Q-learning* by Hasselt, Guez and Silver.

## Notes
1. This paper starts with a very useful review of the flaws of Q-learning in a nice, precise way: Q-learning often overestimates the actual Q-value of an action. It does so because overestimates are typically preferred to underestimates. The only issue here is that Q-learning is a bootstrapping method and overestimates bleed into the other action-values.
2. The paper does answer a question I've had since chapter 2 of Sutton and Barto - of optimism is a good exploration method, then why isn't it used so much in the three main RL techniques? Answer: there's no need for it in dynamic programming, MC methods directly average returns from full trajectories and for temporal difference methods it causes fundamental issues via bootstrapping.
3. "In the examples above, overestimations occur even when assuming we have samples of the true action value at certain states." - Oof. Damning.
4. Ah, there's a difference between overestimation and optimism. Optimism represents high values in the *beginning* of the simulation - they exist prior to the update. Overestimation takes place after the update. This is what causes them to accumulate and bleed into the full value fucntion estimate. 
5. The main technical advance of this paper is the extension of double-Q learning to function approximation techniques. I think that this was somewhat straightforward - the real meat of the paper comes from how the authors thoroughly demonstrated how the previous method causes issues due to overestimation. This was a *really* complete paper...

## Remarks
* Last entry for a good while... about 24 hours. Sike! Never giving up.  