---
layout: log
title: Optimization in play
date: 2026-03-10
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* Finished reading *Trust Region Policy Optimization* by Schulman et al.  

## Notes
1. Recalling for completeness: the idea is that you define the advantage between two policies in terms of visitation policies. Normally, this expression requires two policies - however, with an approximation (which itself is a new objective), you can *generate* new policies from a single one that have a monotonic improvement. In order for this approximation to hold you can't change the policies too significantly.
2. Now, the main theoretical advance of the paper is to quantify this *distance* between you current policy and your subsequent policy in terms of what is effectively the KL divergence. This allows one to extend the range of policies that policy optimization can be applied to to stochastic policies as well.
3. And so, the entire process of policy improvement becomes the maximisation of the surrogate objective (defined as relative expected advantage from the initial policy) such that the KL-divergence is constrained. 
4. The approximations described are
    1. A small enough divergence from the policy so that you can use the same visitation policy: this is essential to ensure that the surrogate objective holds.
    2. A hard constraint on the KL divergence between the two policies to ensure the previous step holds. The constraint is what they call the *trust region*.
    3. A further approximation that considers the average KL divergence between two policies, as constraining the KL divergence for *every* state is intractible. 
5. The rest of the paper is based around demonstrating patterns by which which this algorithm can be implemented. 
6. I think the real advance of this paper is the new loss objective. This is a target that a conjugate gradient descent algorithm would be exceptionally good at solving. The previous method (conservative policy iteration) is way too slow and clunky to handle the deep network policies that were introduced 20 years after the work by Kakade and Langford. 
7. This is the second loss function that I've seen so far in reinforcement learning, the first being the target Q-network loss. This one is a *lot* more intuitive and strikes me as a more rigorous approach to improving deep policies...
8. Let's have a closer look at each term in this optimisation problem:
    *  $$\pi_{\theta} - the new policy.
    *  $$\pi_{\theta^{\text{old}}}$$ - the old policy. This is fixed.
    * The ratio between these must be taken. This is *importance sampling*, where data from the old policy is used to evaluate a new one. Same as the Monte Carlo stuff that we typically deal with.
    * The advantage function survives in here too. Oh, I see how this works! If one action is better than the other, then you'd want to increase the ratio described in the previous point. 
    * You then take the full expectation of the product of the importance ratio and the advantage with respect to the states/actions visited by the old policy.
    * The constraint is the average KL divergence taken over the states visited by the old policy. This is essentially capped by $$\delta$$, which itself is the trust region. 
9. At the *core*, the reason we don't want the policy to change so much isn't just due to instability. Rather, this is the secondary reason - the essence here is that by making large changes in the policy we'll end up optimizing against a completely incorrect importance sampling ratio. It's basically analogous to having a target Q-network that has changed too quickly in deep Q-learning: you don't want the new policy to move outside the data distribution defined by the previous policy.