---
layout: log 
title: Putting the memory in memory
date: 2026-03-30
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* Read *Recurrent Experience Replay in Distributed Reinforcement Learning* - Kapturowski et al.
* Updated and finished literature review for the week. 

## Notes
1. The use of LSTMs for partially observable Markov decision processes is, at this point, a mainstay in the field. This is funny because despite noticing it in the last few papers I've read, it's not something that I've seen explicitly defined.
2. The goal of this paper is to see how training an RNN with *experience* replay turns out. Specifically, 
    * The authors discuss how *parameter lag*, which is solved quite well with `IMPALA` using V-traces, can effect the use of a replay buffer. 
    * They carry out a broad range of experiments to study this issue and investigate mitigation strategies for this issue.
    * They then produce an agent that is, from the abstract, *really* good.
3. The actual algorithm used here is n-step DDQN with LSTMs. It should also be noted that duelling architectures are employed here as well.
4. *Ooh*, interesting: in this algorithm, we aren't storing transition tuples or full trajectories: we're storing partial trajectories that overlap and don't cross through episode boundaries. Very cool!
5. Another innovation: the authors employ prioritization for sequences but use a different scheme for weighting, involving a proportion of the max TD error and the mean TD error. The goal here is to remove the information loss caused by averaging over long sequences. 
6. How does one train a recurrent neural network that has been set up in this way? The authors state that you need to store trajectories that can be used to train the network. The strategies the the authors propose are
    * Storing the recurrent state in replay and using it to initialize the network at training time,
    * Allow the network a ‘burn-in period’ by using a portion of the replay sequence only for unrolling the network and producing a start state, and update the network only on the remaining part of the sequence.
7. The burn-in strategy is has an intuitive reasoning: the first few states of a sequence are usually extremely noisy and inaccurate, with the high chance of causing destructive updates to the RNN. The stored state method is also good and in general more effective at dealing with Q-value discrepancy.
8. As it happens, a combination of these two methods is best.
9. There's an interesting line in the conclusion: "RNN training also serves a role not previously studied in RL, potentially by enabling better representation learning, and thereby improves performance even on domains that are fully observable and do not obviously require memory". That makes a ton of sense!
10. Overall, a lot of this paper is based around an idea that is almost fully intuitive: of *course* giving temporal context to your agents will result in an increase in performance, because this is how humans do it! The only difference here, however, is that *it's actually quite hard to make this work*. The finer points of giving your agents a true sense of memory make quite a significant difference to performance.

## Reinforcement learning experiments
1. Onto Q-learning! Didn't manage to finish the algorithm today, but the bulk of the work is there: I just need to test it first. 
2. I need to start updating the technical note...

## Remarks
* I am going to take a little bit of a detour this week and read about an alternative optimisation technique called Quality-Diversity. There are two reasons for this
    1. I've been hitting reinforcement learning *very* hard as of late and I don't want to become a devote of just one technique,
    2. Another researcher at work knows this stuff inside-out and I want to be able to speak about this without completely blanking out. :) 