---
layout: log 
title: Full regret dynamics 
date: 2026-04-24
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning, software-engineering]
---

## Summary
1. Read the introductory pages of (CS364A: Algorithmic Game Theory Lecture 17: No-Regret Dynamics* by Roughgarden. 
2. Finished reading *Effective Python*.

## Notes
### Literature 
1. This was quite an illuminating lecture note in how it tied in the essence of forecasting with experts as a generalization of learning dynamics. In fact, the core shift in reasoning here is that experts aren't mapped to simple forecaster: the experts are actually represented by *actions*. 
2. I spent a lot of time trying to get my head around this idea of no-regret dynamics. The core of the issue here is that it's basically a *limiting* case, but I'm not sure how such a limiting case really starts to arise. Let's think about this step-by-step.
    1. You have two players, A and B. They play a game and A loses after playing a move that isn't M (which would have won the game). 
    2. A regrets not playing M, so A is now highly likely to play it.
    3. B, who played N, has no regrets. She'll continue to play N regardless of the future. 
    4. The next round, A plays M and B plays N. A naturally wins.
    5. Following this, B has regret whilst A has none. B will shift her move to one that wins, whilst A will not.
    6. Using the *full history of actions*, A and B can come up with a means of picking their move that will cause their total regret to shrink to zero over time. Depending on the nature of the game, the equilibria that the game settles to *could* be a Nash equilibria, but usually ends up being more a set of coarse correlated equilibria.
3. There's a distinction between the levels of equilibria here.
    * **Nash equilibria**: a state where no player can gain by changing their strategies alongside their opponents.
    * **Correlated equilbria**: a weakened form of Nash equilibrium where a mediator is present to recommend strategies. The mediator is trusted, so the players have no reason to distrust their recommendation.
    * **Coarse correlated equilibria**: a further weakening of correlated equilibrium where the players are required to choose whether they want to follow the mediator's advice or not.
4. Why, though, is coarse correlated equilibria the limit of no-regret dynamics? How does that work? I need to think about this more.

### Systems
1. Finished *Effective Python*. The last few chapters weren't so new for me given the my previous Python experience. Regardless, I'm glad I went through this book - it's good time to move on to some of the deeper systems magic behind RL, though. 