---
layout: log 
title: New life
date: 2026-04-15
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* Studied best-response functions and strict domination from Osbourne.
* Spent some time studying the OpenAI spinning up algorithm function structure. 

## Notes
### Literature review
1. The way I described yesterday of identifying Nash equilibria is exactly the same as the approach of using best-response functions to discovering Nash equilibria.
2. **Domination**: Basically, if there's an action available to a player that is better than any response by the opponent, the action *strictly* dominates any action by the opponent. Weak dominance, on the other hand, is when that action is either equal to or better than any action possible for the opponent.
3. Symmetric games are quite simple conceptually: it's just that players of the game are equal in all aspects. Their action profiles and their payoffs are the same.
    * Likewise, symmetric games demonstrate the possibility of symmetric Nash equilibria.
    * Symmetric equilibria have really interesting real life examples. Take for instance when you're waiting for the baggage at the airport. If one person steps forward, everybody has to step forward in order to see whether their luggage is coming in.

### RL experiments 
1.  The algorithms discussed in Spinning Up have a standard structure. It is,
    1. Logger setup
    2. Random seeds
    3. Environment instantiation,
    4. Actor-critic construction in PyTorch
    5. Experience buffer,
    6. Callable loss functions and diagnostics,
    7. PyTorch optimizers,
    8. Model saving through the logger,
    9. Update function 
    10. Main loop:
        * Run the agent,
        * Update the parameters of the agent,
        * Log performance metrics
2. This is quite different to the approach I adopted for the classical RL algorithms in that testing is built into the algorithm. This is a practice I ought to adopt.
3. I probably won't be using the Spinning Up library - stablebaselines3 works better for what I want, which is just out of the box performance. I've also worked with it quite a lot recently. 
4. The theoretical chapters of Spinning Up were a breeze. I've done more than enough on this front. :) 

## Remarks
1. Tired today, so didn't get as much done. In fact, I crashed during the evening and lost a lot of my project time as a result. What to do? When you need sleep, you sleep! 