---
layout: log 
title: Counterfactual regrets
date: 2026-06-02
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning, systems]
---

## Summary
* Read *Regret Minimization in Games with Incomplete Information* by Zinkevich and Johanson.

## Notes
### Literature
1. The main problem raised here is just the strategy space of an extensive game - it's too enormous to properly traverse. The solution that the authors propose is to transform this into an iterative problem through some variety of self-play - narrowing down the strategy space until a Nash equilibrium is reached.
2. I don't get this idea of counterfactual regret minimization. Doesn't evaluating *all* of the actions in the scenario require more computational resources?
3. *Oh, no, I get it!* You're breaking down the tree into *snapshots* (information sets) and comparing all possible actions versus the action actually taken. You're just considering the game paths that *you* control!
4. **Counterfactual regret**: Knowing what I know after playing a game, how much do I wish I had taken a different action at that specific moment in the past? Quantifying this in terms of regret provides a measure of the counterfactual regret.
5. The real killer here is the theorem proved within the paper: reduce counterfactual regret locally and you gradually reduce *global* regret too. It provides a really strong iterative guarantee for convergence to equilibrium.
6. This works in poker, when your goal is to become un-exploitable. I wonder whether this is the right way to go about if you want to be *aggressive*.
7. It should be noted that the mechanism for generating *new* strategies is just regret matching, which is just where you play positive regret strategies with a higher likelihood. 
8. Finally, the last strategy produced isn't that important - the *global average* strategy is the most valuable part of this process. 

### Systems
1. Finished one of the AnyScale courses. The first one was simple enough - given my previous experience with `RLlib` it wasn't at all challenging. 
2. I'm going to move on to the Ray Core course next.

## Remarks
1. Should have done a bit of RL development today, but I came home a bit too late. :( 