---
layout: log 
title: Distribution of memory
date: 2026-03-23
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* Started reading *Distributed prioritized experience replay* by Horgan et al.  
* Switched to reading *Prioritized experience replay* by Schaul.
* Finished literature review for last week.

## Notes
### Literature
1. This is another architecture paper that allows for the distribution of agents at scale. Like IMPALA, the actor is decoupled from the learner. 
2. "The actors interact with their own instances of the environment by selecting actions according to a shared neural network, and accumulate the resulting experience in a shared experience replay memory." Oh. Okay. That's interesting... wait, what?
3. The actors *interact with their own instances*? Like self-play?
4. Wait, I actually haven't yet read the *Prioritized experience replay* paper yet. 
5. .... in fact, I haven't read the hindsight experience replay paper either. Let's make this a new reading theme for the week: *experience replay*. 

Swiftly moving back,

1. The approach in *Prioritized experience replay* makes a ton of sense. The essence here is that before, experiences are sampled uniformly from the experience replay buffer. However, *some experiences are way more useful than others*. How can one prioritized the most useful transitions? How does one identify those useful transitions in the first place?
2. The paper puts it best: "The key idea is that an RL agent can learn more effectively from some transitions than from others".
3. Ah, there we go... experiences are weighted with respect to their temporal difference error. Smart, simple and *genius*.

## Remarks
1. Crap, ran out of time during my lunch break today - it's been a cramped day given that I've just returned from a two week break. I'll come back to *Prioritized Experience Replay* tomorrow.   
2. I did however finish my literature review for the last week. A somewhat short literature review, but it took me bloody *ages* to really nail the engineering behind the V-trace. I'm glad I sat down and thought through this, although it still seems pretty magical to me right now.
3. Today wasn't half a chaotic day. The quantum event I was supposed to go to was pushed forward, so I didn't need to travel. :)