---
layout: log 
title: Fictitious work 
date: 2026-06-08
math: True
tags: [deep-learning, reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
1. Finished reading relevant data from *Multiagent Systems: Algorithmic, Game-Theoretic, and Logical Foundations* by Shoham and Leyton-Brown.

## Notes
### Literature
1. Alright, so fictitious play is sensitive to starting conditions. This is potentially why the standard advice is to carry out fictitious self-play on a hot-started agent.
2. I suppose the key component of fictitious play occurs only when *both* agents are continually updating their beliefs about the state. If I play against an agent that doesn't change, then you'd eventually converge to the static distribution of that agent. The fact that fictitious play converges to the mixed strategy equilibrium implies that a dynamical process on both fronts.,
3. The theorems are really interesting in this chapter. Steady state is intuitive: an action profile that never changes after occuring. However, 
    * *If a pure-strategy profile is a strict Nash equilibrium of a stage game, then it is a steady state of fictitious play in the repeated game*.
    * *If a pure-strategy profile is a steady state of fictitious play in the repeated game, then it is a (possibly weak) Nash equilibrium in the stage game*.
4. These are really useful ideas to keep in mind when reasoning about convergent strategy dynamics.
5. They *don't* map so cleanly to the idea of the meta-strategy solver, though. Hmmm... carrying out this pattern of reading has made me *more* confused than I was a few weeks ago.
6. How does this map to the *modern* problems, though? How should we reason about full policies over actions? The abstractions here are a little difficult to wrap my head around.

### Deep learning
1. A new project. I've realised that the best way to study systems was by applying distributing computing techniques to projects - actively learning rather than passively consuming. The issue here is *that I don't have enough projects to actually distribute!* That will change as of now.
2. On another note, I've spent a lot of time razor-focused on reinforcement learning. I feel as though I ought to spend a little bit more time working on the "deep" side, just to get more intuition on how the work should be done.
3. Made progress on my main test environment today - a simple implementation of gridworld that dumps random walled states as a pixels. Didn't manage to finish it, but the ball is rolling. :)