---
layout: log
title: Bandits and graph neural networks
date: 2026-01-05
tags: [deep-learning, graph-neural-networks, reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* Started reading Graph networks as learnable physics engines for inference and control - Sanchez-Gonzales et. al. (2018). Didn't manage to finish it given that I started my lunch break later than usual, but this was a useful reading session. 
* Spent a bit of time on Sutton and Barto and playing around with bandit testbeds. 

## Remarks
1. I'm studying graph neural networks to investigate how inductive bias can be employed in highly interactive autonomous systems. 
2. ~~GNNs~~ GNs are powerful: they generalise nicely and actually have a pretty intuitive explanation. They're nothing more than a means of imposing inductive bias into the learning process. The graph networks that I was studying today could be used for forward prediction (they can act as a time evolution operator), inference (they can identify and predict hidden properties of the graph) and control (a mix of both).
2. A few years ago when I was messing around with data science, I was repeatedly told about the importance of feature engineering. GNNs seem to be an automated, differentiable means of carrying this out. (although as of 28/01/2026, this comment does not apply to graph networks!)
3. Progress on Sutton and Barto. Solved some exercises from Chapter 2, although this stuff is simple business. As part of this task, I wrote my own bandit and spent a bit too much time playing about with it. :)

## Corrections (28/01/2026)
* There's a big misunderstanding here and one that I really ought to clear up for anybody reading: graph networks and graph neural networks refer to different architectures in this context. 
* Graph neural networks are meant to represent data *as a graph*. It makes use of inductive bias in order to improve the training and prediction of data that is best represented in the form of a graph.
* The graph networks discussed in Sanchez-Gonzales et al. is less about representation and more about simulation, specifically prediction and control. They are different architectures entirely!