---
layout: log 
title: Enough regret to go around
date: 2026-04-23
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
1. Read excerpts from *A simple adaptive procedure leading to correlated equilibrium* by Hart and Mas-Colel.
2. Spent a bit of time reviewing key RL derivations, just to keep my understanding flowing. 
3. Fell asleep on my desk whilst writing up my RL derivations.

## Notes
### Literature
1. The sense that I'm getting is that **correlated equilibrium** is sort of like an external signal that pushes agents towards a higher value equilibrium (or at the very least allows agents to make better choices). One of the illuminating aspects of the preamble here is that correlated equilibrium is said to be one of the more realistic equilibria, as it's typically the case that there is some degree of information provided to players throughout a game.
2. Oh, I get it! Say I want to go to the movies and my girlfriend wants to go roller skating. Normally we'd be stuck in a BoS scenario, but if we both flip a coin and use that to mediate our response then we'd find a correlated equilibrium. For example, I know if the flip is tails then Anoushka will choose roller skating. As such, I'll be able to make my choice knowing what she'll do. (It's a trick question by the way - if Anoushka wants to go roller skating then we'll be going roller skating :D)
3. Ah crap, I spent so much time trying to get my head around correlated equilibrium that I ran out of time to actually read the paper. This will be read tomorrow, I suppose. 
4. Another example of correlated equilibrium, perhaps, and one more aligned to the scope of "degrees" of information passed by the correlated signal. Perhaps Anoushka and I are deciding on whether we want to go to the roller skating rink or the movies... and I check my phone beforehand to see if the film I want to watch is on. It's not and I know that Anoushka will have checked her phone too. There is thus no reason for me to go to the movies: I'll go to the roller skating rink knowing that Anoushka will do the same.

### RL Experiments
1. I was about to set down the algorithm of `REINFORCE`, but before I knew it was 4AM the next day and I had drooled over my desk. I didn't even realise that I was so tired! 