---
layout: log 
title: Danish, not the pastry
date: 2026-05-12
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* Started *Counterfactual Multi-Agent Policy Gradients* by Foerster et al. 

## Notes
### Literature
1. Alright, it looks like the centralized critic is the key tool used to enable MARL for many algorithms. It's worth internalizing this technique. If a normal critic is simply an estimation of the value of an action, a centralized critic is an estimation of the value of a group coordination. 
2. The highlight of *COMA* is that is a baseline is used to marginalize a single-agent action whilst keeping the other agents actions fixed.
3. Could the basic idea of this paper be employed in a hierarchy? Subset the population into groups and see how each group contributes to the goal? 
4. Of course, the critic is only ever a training mechanism: it guides the development of the action network.
5. **Multi-agent credit assignment**: determining which action of which agent contributed most to the reward. I mean, credit assignment (figuring out which of your actions actually resulted in the reward) is damned hard enough!
6. **Counterfactual baseline** - a fixed action that is carried out on all agents as a basic measure. By replacing one of the baselines with the true action carried out by the agent, it is possible to gauge how much credit to assign that agent. 
7. This is smart, but necessarily incomplete. How does this defeat the *standard* credit assignment problem of assigning reward to an action over time?
8. I am *tired*. Need to get to my hotel room - will update this entry when I get there. If this sentence is still within this log then assume that I've fallen asleep!
  
## Remarks
1. Went to the Danish Embassy to check out some startups today for work. Naturally, I wasn't able to do much outside of reading papers on the train. However, this was an interesting paper indeed!
2. Ah fuck, I miss not doing experiments. I really, really enjoy doing experiments. Especially in a field as nuts as reinforcement learning. 