---
layout: log 
title: constant sniffling 
date: 2026-05-01
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning, game-theory]
---

## Summary
* Started reading *A Comprehensive Survey of Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning* by Busconiu, Babuska and De Schutter.

## Notes
### Literature 
1. Alright, here we go - reserach in multi-agent reinforcement learning eventually did settle upon the idea of stable learning dynamics as a research goal. 
2. This paper treats stability and adaption as two essential components of the MARL problem.
3. Something useful: MARL has strong connections with game theory, evolutionary computation and optimization theory. The first and last I knew - evolutionary computation, however, I did not. In my mind evolutionary computation was a subfield of optimization...
    * In fairness, the evolutionary computing aspect isn't emphasised in this paper anyhow. 
4. It's nuts how I could literally skim past most of this paper, from the game theory stuff ot the single-agent reinforcement learning content. I know this stuff now - or rather, I know enough to be useful. :)
5. The section on why MARL is beneficial is really useful. These are aspects that I've never even thought about given how complex MARL is in my mind. Some of these benefits include:
    * Parallel computation inherent to the problem of having multiple decentralised agents will naturally provide speed-up.
    * MARL can be inherently robust, as a single agent failing can be compensated for easily: you just have to replace it with another friendly agent within the system.
6. The challenges are still *pretty* extensive.
    * The obvious curse of dimensionality.
    * Specifying an appropriate goal - the agent returns are correlated and can't be maximised independently.
    * Non-stationarity, as the agents are learning independently. As my previous literature review made clear, this is a *real* killer for the typical single-agent reinforcement learning approach.
    * Exploration-exploitation is typically a lot more nuanced and sensitive, because exploration also includes learning about the other agents in the system.
    * Coordination and mutual-consistency required for the agents, which is *another* layer of complexity required throughout the full learning dynamics.
7. This stuff is damned *hard*. How do people even solve these multi-agent problems?
8. Very interesting definitions presented here:
    * **Rationality**: the requirement that the agent converges to a best response when the other agents are held stationary. 
    * **No-regret**: The agent returns a return that is at least as good as the return of any stationary strategy.
9. There's a very useful taxonomy of MARL algorithms based on their goals included here. I'll have to give this a thorough review over the weekend. 
10. That's all I can muster for today - will finish this paper tomorrow.

### Theory
1. Got through some more videos on game theory. There are some important distinctions that I've realised here:
    * Extensive form games are those that resemble turn-based scenarios. They're temporal, yes, but they still represent one game. 
    * Repeated games are *whole games played over and over again*. The point of a repeated game is to learn from the same strategic scenario over and over again.

## Remarks
1. Still feeling crap - took me another three hours to read this paper. 
2. I remember using the term "dispel the curse of dimensionality" in a paper that I wanted to publish during my PhD. My supervisor highlighted it with the comment "this is an academic paper, not a D&D campaign".
