---
layout: log 
title: Taking two steps at the same time
date: 2026-03-28
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* Read about parallelism and concurrency from *Effective Python*.

## Notes
1. Alright, child processes are used to run external processes from within python code. Got it. It's *kind of* like a bridge between the python codebase and the rest of the operating system, right?
2. Given that these programs are run *outside* of the interpreter, they essentially act independently. The motivation of using these tools comes from being as efficient as possible with CPU use. 
3. I suppose the real essence of child processes is in situations where you're not running python code. It's sort of a replacement (albeit a more modern and complex version) of the os library.
4. I can see how this might be useful, but I must admit I've never had real opportunity to use this in my own work!

## Remarks
1. Metaclasses were a bit of a trip. I was having serious trouble trying to figure out the usecases that they were even suitable for. In fact, after asking a few people at work, I'm *still* not too sure why I'd want to use them - it just doesn't seem like they're th obvious option for 99% of cases.
2. Parallelism and concurrency are non-negotiable. I need to thoroughly understand what this chapter is about, so I'll quite likely be making quite slow progress though this.
3. A quite day today - was in London hanging out with family for the most part. There are always quiet days - the key is to make sure that even the quiet days are *useful*.