---
layout: log 
title: Bibliothèque Sainte-Geneviève
date: 2026-06-13
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
1. Fixed my rollout buffer implementation and integrated it into the simple Actor-Critic formulation.
2. Implemented generalized advantage estimates using the rollout buffer class. 

## Notes
### RL experiments
1. We're getting close. I haven't yet built PPO - I'd still like to make the progression from vanilla Actor-Critic, advantage AC and batched A2C, but I think a lot of the infrastructure is there now. 
2. I now understand GAE. This actually makes *perfect* sense - it's essentially just a way of building in multi-step value assessment into what was originally introduced as a single-step approach. The lambda parameter allows one to switch between long-timescale advantage estimation (which is inherently noisier but contains less bootstrapping bias) to short-timescale advantage estimation (large amounts of bias, but stable). This is an important means of tuning the Actor-Critic approach without having to continually tweak the infrastructure of the algorithm. 

## Remarks
1. Feeling better, much better. Still felt a bit woozy on the train to Luxembourg, but I recovered enough to get some good work done today. 
2. My work took place in the Bibliothèque Sainte-Geneviève today. A gorgeous, gorgeous library. Also completely full - I was quite lucky to get a place. 
3. This city is absolutely wonderful. The French are some of the nicest people in the *world*. They're so happy to offer help to a clueless tourist! 