---
layout: log 
title: Finally finished the technical note
date: 2026-05-30
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* Finished my write-up on REINFORCE and Actor-Critic. 
* Finished a write-up of the main ideas of MARL algorithms. 

## Notes
### RL Experiments
1. And I think that's done. I'm going to go through the post tomorrow and really whip it into shape, but for now I'm happy to put it aside and work on the other thing I've been heavily procrastinating. 
2. It'll be PPO next! Can't wait. I do think that I'm steadily going to change the way I carry out my personal research. I feel like right now I spend far too much time working on literature and writing. I need *artifacts*. I need to get code out and mess around with experiments. 

### Literature
1. I spend far too much time writing about what I've read. It is time to be disciplined here and follow a standard approach. 
2. For this literature review my goal is to be terse and stick to the essential point of MARL algorithms. The point here is to build and consolidate my *taste* in research. 
3. I've gotten half way through. The rest will have to be finished tomorrow. I'm trying to be work very closely to my previous literature review, but it takes a bit of effort to make the necessary connections. It's useful, but this literature review cannot become a 3000+ word essay.

## Remarks
1. Things have to change. I'm not trying to be a repository of research literature - that job has been taken by LLMs anyhow. I'm here to build, so I have to spend less time building and more time writing.
2. I have decided that pursuing Rust skills have for now become a distraction to the real goal of mastering modern deep reinforcement learning. How many days have I just done some Rust puzzles and nothing else? I'm demoting Rust as a smaller daily task until I get to a point where I *need* to use it.
