---
layout: log 
title: The Dreaming
date: 2026-04-01
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* Started reading *Dream to Control: Learning Behaviors by Latent Imagination* by Hafner et al. 
* Work on RL experiments.

## Notes
### Literature
1. Dreamer is a reinforcement learning agent that learns long-horizon behaviours from images by latent imagination. I'm guessing this is an extension of Schmidhuber's basic methodology of using three networks for vision, memory and control. I remember thinking about what might happen if more powerful models were used for either...
2. The statement of the problem: building representations of the world that allow for generalization. 
3. World models are just surrogate models that can carry out multi-purpose predictions. I've build surrogate models for material dynamics in the past - if I had a model that could predict the dynamics of *any* material, I'd likely have something closer to a world model.
4. Dreamer is trained via a novel actor-critic algorithm. It trains by backpropagating value estimates through *imagined* trajectories (?!).
    * So this means that you imagine a reward and propagate it backwards through imagined trajectories versus the actual trajectories. 
    * As can be seen, this is a model-based off-policy approach.  

### RL experiments
1. Spent some time building a harness for the deep experiments library. This process is a lesson in *systems design*. I realise that, but standardising my algorithms across the library, I can make it so that the experiment harness can be really simple and require little in the way of algorithm-dependent specifications. 
2. I didn't manage to finish this and I anticipate that it might take a little longer to build, so I think that I'll give myself the full week to build this and start the deep reinforcement learning segment next week.

## Remarks
1. Crap, ran out of time for the literature review. This is a *very* interesting paper and deserves proper attention. In fact, my next few literature reviews will focus entirely on the Dreamer models.