---
layout: log 
title: The reality of my understanding
date: 2026-04-04
math: True
tags: [software-engineering]
---

## Summary
* Spent some time in the morning assessing my overall from-scratch understanding of RL.
* More work on parallelism through *Effective Python*.

## Notes
1. What it looks like (from this version of the book that I'm reading) is that threading is just *really* poorly supported in Python and there's a lot of strange and undefined behaviour that takes place when you try and use them. Even the issue of having a global interpreter lock in place isn't enough to protect against mutexes... because the thread accessing the object might switch half-way through carrying out the instruction! 
2. Indeed, the only reason I can think of that one might use threading is when you've got part of the data waiting for some kind of input (for example) but you want to have the rest of the program do useful work at the same time. *This is only useful because the GIL is released whilst waiting for responses.
3. I put down the book and spent a bit of time looking at threading code. In general, this is a technique that is used for wait-heavy tasks or even background tasks. Given that I learned Python in a scientific computing context, I can see why I never really came across any strong threading applications.
4. The mental model I'm getting here when working with threads is that you have a source of truth - Python bytecode - that is produced by the interpreter. What happens normally is that this bytecode is read one instruction per one instruction, but the use of threads make it so that 

## Remarks
* Quiet day, necessarily. I'm on holiday and my partner and I spending a weekend in another city. Again, not going to spend time grinding software engineering books when I should be spending time with my partner!
* I spent a quiet hour in the morning testing myself on the theory of reinforcement learning and my general command of the formalism that is developed in Sutton and Barto.
* I'm not happy with my level of skill. I had to look up most definitions apart from the basic ones and even then I was struggling to derive more advanced ideas from scratch. I've decided to spend some real time working on this - this *must* change.