---
layout: log 
title: This is not (Layer)Normal
date: 2026-07-20
math: True
tags: [foundation-models]
---

## Summary
1. Read *Layer Normalization* by Ba et al. 
2. Started reading *Build a Large Language Model (from scratch)* by Raschka - finished first chapter.

## Literature review
1. So.. what's going on here is that the *input* to the layer is normalized. A mean and variance is calculated with respect to a single training example and that is then used to normalize the data before passing it through the network. Okay, interesting.
2. Batch normalization takes a batch of the training data and then normalizes with respect to the averages within that batch.
3. But wait. What happens when the features within a single example are structurally different? Like, eye color and height in a single training example: how would normalization even be applied here? You'd be destroying so much data through this kind of normalization.
4. *I see*. This is applied to transformers because word embeddings have features that share the same kind of space. 
5. Alright, interesting: the problem here is that the statistical distribution of a layer's inputs changes continuously during training as preceding weights are updated. This forces subsequent layers to constantly re-adapt to new input distributions, leading to unstable training and slower convergence: this is called covariate shift. 
6. Layer norm fixes covariant shift by standardizing the inputs of the layers. By forcing them to adopt a normalized form, they don't need to continuously shift to completely different distributions with every layer.
7. "Instead, layer normalization is invariant to scaling of the entire weight matrix and invariant to a shift to all of the incoming weights in the weight matrix" - got it.
8. Alright, you can see that LayerNorm doesn't work so well with grid based data like CNNs. Transformers are *really* well suited to this technique.

## Foundation models
1. I was browsing X when I came across this recommendation. What an awesome resource! It has a really good reputation as well.
2. Instead of trawling through papers, I think for now I'm going to take the easy way out and just read the book on this field. :) 
3. The rough distinction is as follows:
 * **Pre-training**: employing a self-supervised approach to generate a foundation model.
 * **Fine-tuning**: using a labelled approach to specialize the foundation model for a particular task.
4. It's like a stem cell. A foundation model is a raw, highly useful basic object. Fine-tuning allows it to specialize into a fully-realized cell. Got it!
5. **I see!** - BERT uses the encoder of a transformer, whereas a GPT model uses the decoder of a transformer. Interesting indeed! 
6. Another important distinction:
 * One-shot: full generalization with no guidance.
 * Few-shot: prompting required, but fast generalization.
7. **Next word prediction is a form of self-supervised learning**. Interesting indeed... but what makes this specifically "self-supervised" over just "supervised"? The fact that the language model is responsible for generating its own label? Yes. Normally, you have to provide the label. In this situation, the model fully generates the label.
8. Autoregression is just where a model generates by incorporating its previous outputs...
9. What a superb chapter. This book is really nicely written. :) 

## Remarks
1. Am I... going all in on LLMs? 