---
layout: log
title: Atari!
date: 2026-03-02
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* Read *Playing Atari with Deep Reinforcement Learning* by Minh et al. 
* Implemented value iteration.

## Notes
### Literature 
1. "Clearly, the performance of such systems heavily relies on the quality of the feature representation." - the essence of the advance in this paper is the question of feature representation. 
2. The paper discusses experience replay buffers to deal with the problem of correlated data and non-stationary distributions. A recap: experience replay buffers store the agents past experiences to be used for training. By isolating the "good" events and reusing them for training, you can remove correlations in observations.
3. A human expert was surpassed on three of the games tested. What is it that makes some games easier to crack?
4. Okay, lets think about this.
    * The loss has two terms: a prediction of $$Q(s,a)$$ from the agent and a target reward calculated via the agent experience. 
    * The target is the sum of the immediate reward and the discounted maximum future value, calculated using previous network weights.
    * In this situation, zero loss means "my guess is exactly the same as the reward I just got plus my expected future rewards".
5. Wait, what? You're using the same approximation of $$Q(s,a)$$ to improve your policy and select actions. This is the same issue that necessitated double-Q learning, right? I suppose this is why DDQN was developed. 
6. Oh, nice: turns out the oft-mentioned `TD-Gammon` program used self-play as it's meta-strategy. Cool!
7. Experience replay is simple enough - it's just a rudimentary form of memory. You store the previous experiences of the agent and then use them at random to update the Q-function. In the paper, only the last $$N$$ experiences are stored. 
8. The input via the experience replay buffer is tweaked to maintain a fixed representation. A sequence model might be a good modern way of handling that...
9. Answer to point 3: time-scales. Humans are (or, at this point, were) better at handling timesteps. It's worth noting with respect to the results that where humans *did* beat the RL agent, they demolished it.

### Reinforcement learning 
1. Implemented value iteration today. It's a simple algorithm, but given the standard I've set myself for this project I think I'll only be pushing it once the results fully complete. 
2. Bit by bit, we go further on the path...

## Remarks
1. Five more days until I'm on the flight to India. I can't wait!
2. It's quite interesting how the company that eventually built a grandmaster program for Go started off by first defeating Atari. Atari is a technical term in Go that means "to hit". It's stuff like this that makes me wonder about simulated realities and what not. 
3. Is it just me or is convergence is reinforcement learning surprisingly *brittle*? It's by no means the ultra powerful limiting case that we see in mathematics and physics. In reinforcement learning, all convergence means is that your learning is stable: you eventually settle and end up learning *something*...