---
layout: log 
title: Distributing priorities 
date: 2026-03-25
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* Finished *Distributed prioritized experience replay* by Horgan et al.
* Spent a bit of time implementing a first visit Monte Carlo class in my RL experiments. 

## Notes
### Literature
1. Prioritization is *really* powerful. According to this paper, prioritization was found to be the most important ingredient in an ablation study carried out in an ablation study where multiple techniques in reinforcement learning were combined (future reference: in the Rainbow model).
2. Alright, the architecture seems quite straightforward: the agents feed the replay buffer, which in turn is used to train. Got it!
3. It's nice to see that this trend of decomposing the agent into an actor and learner is, at this point in the literature, becoming widespread. I think it makes a ton of sense myself, although I can see why it would have taken a bit of time for this to catch on - this is almost exclusively a hardware driven change.
4. In distributed PER, the actors contribute to a centralized replay buffer. There is also a centralized learner that shares parameters. The method used here (multistep DQN and DPG) is off-policy anyway, so sampling with respect to policy lag isn't really anything to worry about. The real key, of course, is the priorisation that takes place within the learner.
5. Oof. Haven't come across duelling architectures yet - added to my literature review list.
6. There's something interesting about Figure 3, where the mean episode return is plotted for a set of actors. For the humanoid (stand) game, the episode return suddenly falls to zero for a period before rising back up. What caused that?
7. **Limitation of these approaches**: They can only really work in situations where data is easy to obtain.

### RL experiments
1. MC control done. I did not expect *this* level of variance in the technique. I thought that my implementation was completely bugged at first (it kind of was, but then I fixed it). Regardless, I am not getting exactly the same policies as before. Apparently this is expected, as the only guarantee that MC methods have is that they'll converge under the law of large numbers.
2. I'm going to push and then move on to temporal difference methods. Let's get onto the deep stuff ASAP!
  
## Remarks
* It's interesting to me that RL research in general seems to be
    1. Here's this really cool idea that was invented in the 1990s,
    2. Fastforward 20 years and add deep learning and damn, look at that!
* MC methods. I love them, but they are punishing.  
