---
layout: log 
title: Striking (fools) gold
date: 2026-07-04
math: True
tags: [deep-learning, reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
1. Finally made progress with my A2C implementations. 
2. Read about four paragraphs from *Tutorial on Variational Autoencoders* by Doersch.

## Notes
### RL experiments
1. Good day today. Managed to get *some* progress with my A2C and batched A2C implementation. There's now a reasonably strong learning signal. :)
2. I realised that the issue wasn't so much in my implementation but in the way I was controlling the rollout. It happens that *having a massive rollout reduces opportunities for model learning*. For this problem, at the very least, it seems as though fast and frequent updates were more effective than providing a massive batch and training the model through that. 
3. The use of a batch supports throughput, but the important aspect is how frequently the throughput is translated into learning- you can have a massive batch if you like, but if you only update 30 times you're almost certainly going to lose out to a model that has made 1000 updates during that time. 
4. I'm now halfway through getting a properly rigorous testing framework set up. This will allow for really telling comparisons between batched/unbatched A2C implementations. 

### Deep learning 
1. More reading through the variational autoencoder paper. I'll be totally honest, I nodded off whilst reading it. :)  

## Remarks 
1. I don't expect I'll be able to finish PPO this week. That's alright - I want to do this *properly*.