---
layout: log 
title: Stuck in a dream
date: 2026-04-03
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning, software-engineering]
---

## Summary
* Read *Mastering Atari with Discrete World Models* by Hafner et al.
* Studied parallelism through *Effective Python*.

## Notes
### Literature
1. I can see why Yann LeCun puts so much stock into world models. These are *genuinely* extremely powerful in how they allow for generalization.
2. There are two lines of contributions with respect to this paper.
    * The world model here is learned completely separately to the agent. The agent still trains exclusively on the world model and serves as a test of the world model fidelity.
    * The actor and critic policies themselves are given new loss functions to make use of the latent dynamics presented to them in the world model.
3. **The world model**:
    1. The world model is trained from the agent's dataset of past experiences - this includes  images, actions and rewards *as well as* discount factors. That's quite new - was the record of discount factors in the previous paper? (No, it wasn't). Ah, the discount factor works as an indication of terminal states. Smart!
    2. Holy crap, world models are *extensive*. 
        * Recurrent model - used to learn the dynamics as a sequence of deterministic states, 
        * Representation model - carries out representation learning on states and compresses the true world states into an easily queryable model. The real advance here is the use of categorical latents - the states predicted by the world model can be one of 32 separate variables.  
        * Transition predictor - guesses the next state from the current model state and action,
        * Image predictor - reverses the latent representation and predicts an observation,
        * Reward predictor - learns the reward of a latent state,
        * Discount predictor - estimates the probability of the episode ending.
4. A key advance here is the use of the KL balancing. This is a bit tough for me to process, specifically because I'm missing some of the terminology here. I guess the essence of this is that treating the latent representation tuning and the observation representation as the same thing is bad in the early stages of training with a bad prior, so... weighting both differently allows for an improvement in training stability? Need to give this a bit more thought.
5. The world model is then used to define an *imagination MDP*, which in turn powers an actor-critic approach.
    * A similar approach to weighting takes place here as in Dreamer V1 for training and learning the value function.
    *  The actor, on the other hand, is trained differently - the method here is closer to `REINFORCE` with a baseline over the typical actor-critic on-policy approach. Interesting. Furthermore, there are additional terms in the actor loss that bias the loss with respect to *both* the latent and discrete actions. The main advance in this regime appears to be the use of categorical latents described previously. 

### Systems
1. **Mutual exclusion lock** - also known as a mutex, this is a constraint that only one thread can access a shared resource at a time. 
2. Looks like the main reason for using threads is to make system calls in parallel. I get the constraint here: you can't do parallel work within your python interpreter, but doing so for system relevant tasks is definitely possible.
3. But wiat, in this whole situation: why do we even *use* threads in Python? What do they even do that is useful? What's the basic core function outside of interfacing with the system outside of the python interpreter?
4. I am *sleepy*. Gonna take a nap on the train. Right now. 

## Remarks
1. Did my literature study on the train to Manchester Piccadilly today. At this point I may as well just do all of my work on a train or something.
2. World models are essentially just a deep learned variant of the model-based reinforcement learning approach. Given my previous experiments on using value iteration, it's quite easy to see how having a perfect world model would yield good results. The challenge of course is to develop that perfect world model in the first place!
3. People at my workplace very casually speak of world models as solutions to various problems that nobody will ever know about. Reading this paper makes me suspect that world models are fundamentally *very* damned hard to engineer and have a ton of complex moving components.  