---
layout: log
title: Tiredness and sources of energy
date: 2026-02-26
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* Read *Actor-Critic Algorithms* by Konda and Tsitsiklis.

## Notes
1. Critic-only methods: presumably techniques that don't parameterize the policy and a class of techniques that don't really do so well (according to the previous paper, the basic RL methods with value function approximations don't converge...)
2. Again, even Actor-Critic is policy iteration + value interation. This basic structure exists everywhere in reinforcement learning...
3. "Since  the number of parameters that the actor has to update is relatively small (compared  to the number of states), the critic need not attempt to compute or approximate the exact value function, which is a high-dimensional object..." - fair enough, I doubt most deep learning policies used for LLMs and the like are too large compared to the number of states they can produce. That being said, they're still pretty damn big...
4. Took me *way* too long to realise that this paper converts gradient ascent to gradient descent!
5. Main insight here was that Actor-Critic algorithms are a temporal different method equivalent for policy gradient methods.
6. Little bit too tired to read about convergence criteria right now - this will be done during literature review this week. I do see however that there's something quite important here: if the critic learns faster than the actor, the algorithm can be proven to converge locally. Very cool!
7. Alright, so the main contribution of this paper was to consider parameterizing the critic and then combining it with an already parameterized actor and then rigorously proving that this can converge under certain circumstances.

## Remarks 
* Another 11 hour day. Loads of `multiprocessing`. I'm damned tired, man... but I set myself this goal and I'm going to do something every day to reach an expert level at deep autonomous engineering.
* It's probably worth mentioning that I *do* actually work on deep reinforcement learning at work, so even when my work days take over I'm still in the process of learning my field. I just can't tell anybody about what it is that I actually do. You're just gonna have to take my word for it. :) 
* You know what makes this easier? Having a partner who supports you and for whom you would do anything for. That makes this all easier. I've seen a lot of anti-woman content on X recently, but I wonder whether people truly understand just how empowering it is to have someone to live for. It's not at all a prison like many believe it to be, but a **source of energy** which can inspire deep growth.