---
layout: log 
title: Lingering
date: 2026-03-22
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* Finished reading *IMPALA: Scalable Distributed Deep-RL with Importance Weighted Actor-Learner Architectures* by Espeholt et al. 
* Started on the literature review for this week - will have this finished by tomorrow.

## Notes
1. **Oh, I get how V-traces work!**
2. The first thing to realise is that V-trace is an off-policy correction step for value function and by extension the advantage function. V-trace essentially nudges the estimator of the policy gradient method in a way that updates with respect to the *current* learner policy, regardless of learner lag. 
3. It does this via clipped importance sampling, with the current learner policy being evaluated against the action policy. *All you are doing is correcting your value function with respect to the fact that the policy that generated the trajectory* (the behaviour policy) is not the same as the trajectory you're updating*.
4. The reason this idea seemed so foreign to be is because it builds *directly* on the idea of an elligibility trace. This is *somewhat true*.
5. The parameters here, $$\bar{\rho}$$ and $$c$$, have specific meanings: $$\bar{\rho}$$ represents the correction to the policy, whereas $$c$$ brings forth the popagation of the correction term (in the same way as how an eligibility trace corrects value with respect to history. 
6. The truncation is the difficult part, I think. The goal here is, I suppose, to use a similar soft update. I guess all that's going here is the fact that we're adding bias to the importance sampling by using a pre-defined term for both of the parameters. 

## Remarks
1. Quiet day today - went to meet my cousins and ended up going bowling. Was nice! A good way of ending my holiday and sick leave. 
2. Simply ran out of time in the day to finish my literature review today. I need to be up early tomorrow! This will be completed on the train journey tomorrow. 