---
layout: log 
title: No ragrets
date: 2026-04-22
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
1. Read excerpts from *Introduction to Online Convex Optimization* by Hazan.

## Notes
### Literature
1. Online optimization is a method that learns more as more of the problem becomes observed. It is used in scenarios where the problem is so complex that it isn't realistic to lay out a comprehensive theoretical model. Here, when you're learning online, simply reducing the loss isn't the goal: you're trying to reduce the regret (because you're definitely going to get stuff wrong sooner or later).
2. ... so basically, multi-agent reinforcement learning. Or indeed, reinforcement learning in general. I suppose the basic question here is how an agent should update its strategy when facing a changing (possibly adversarial) environment. 
3. Ah, I can see some connections here. I suppose the real difference here is that adversarial agents aren't so much *other entities* but loss generators. The aim here is to switch from a single reward maximisation problem to a regret minimisation problem. 
4. Holy crap. I've got it. I see where self-play comes from!
    * Self-play descends from fictitious play, which is in turn motivated by the basic strategy of **follow the leader** and a basic concept in online convex optimisation. 
    * The very basic strategy of reducing the regret of your *full* trajectory is the core of this improvement process, with *regularization* being a core part of this learning trajectory.
    * All of this manifests as careful constraints within the gradient method used to optimize the online learning step. 
5. Is that right? This is a rare moment where I'm going to get AI to check whether I really understand what I'm talking about or not. 
    * AI concurs. I don't trust AI - it's too nice. I'm going to read a bit more about this tomorrow.

### RL Experiments
1. Finished a fully annotated writeup of the derivation for `REINFORCE`. This one was actually a lot harder than I'd assumed at first! 