---
layout: log 
title: Centralized critics?
date: 2026-05-07
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* Started reading *Multi-Agent Actor-Critic for Mixed Cooperative-Competitive Environments* by Lowe et al. 

## Notes
### Literature 
1. The preamble of this paper states that variants of hierarchical reinforcement learning can be thought of as multi-agent problems. I suppose this tracks: if you have one agent controlling another agent, and another agent controlling yet another agent, you're basically operating a set of multi-agent systems.
2. It's very interesting that the use of experience replay becomes significantly less powerful when handling multi-agent problems. Policy gradients also exhibit huge variance, but this isn't surprising to me given my recent experiments with policy gradient methods.
3. Centralized traing with decentralized execution is introduced here as a way to ease the training process: you provide agents a means of sharing data and then remove this constraint at run-time.
4. The basic approach used here is that the critic is augmented with the actions of all other agents. The approach carries over to deterministic policies and becomes the multi-agent deep deterministic policy gradient method. This is quite intuitive... but what is the catch?
5. Ran out of time today at lunch. Oof... there will be a ton of reading over the next few days. 
 

## Remarks
1. A slow day, but for good reason.
2. I had an absolute killer opportunity just pop up - the ability to do some amazing work and really push the envelope on some interesting stuff. No details now, but it is time to work. 
3. I've redetermined my study path for the next few months. Things are about to get *intense*.