---
layout: log 
title: New life
date: 2026-04-15
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* More work on understanding Nash equilibrium from Osbourne.

## Notes
### Literature review
1. It's crazy how strong the assumptions that underlie Nash equilibrium are.
    * Everybody is rational,
    * Their beliefs about everybody else's actions are correct.
2. How many real life situations even follow this kind of logic? In fact, most people aside from those who are highly trained are not rational and nobody has a clue what everybody else is doing.
3. I do, however, intuitively understand the idea of a oracle now - a means of calculating the pay off.. It's shorthand for "here is an algorithm/routine that we've spent years training/developing that we can't explain but provides the best answer that we can come up with". 
4. **Focal point**: A Nash equilibrium that is more attractive to the wider group that the other Nash equilibria available as part of the game.
5. There is a somewhat straightforward way to identify the Nash equilibria of all of the games described in this chapter.
    * For each of player 2's actions, highlight player 1's highest payoff.
    * For each of player 1's actions, highlight player 2's highest payoff.
    * A pair of actions is a Nash equilibrium if both payoffs are highlighted (best responses to each other). 
6. **Strict equilibria**: Where each equilibrium represents the unique best response of the player. Alternatively, **non-strict** equilibria allows a player to be indifferent with respect to a subset of strategies. For example, say you're trying to beat a member of the SAS in a boxing match. No matter what you do, you're probably going to die. Any action you do provides just about the same payoff, which is zero. As such, you can do whatever you like - you find yourself in the unfortunate situation of being on the losing side of *non-strict equilibrium*.

## Remarks
1. Studying game theory and writing about it is quite hard because I naturally start thinking about the problem in terms of my domain. Which I am not allowed to talk about. 
2. A quiet day today, necessarily. However, a very happy day. :)