---
layout: log 
title: Half a year, almost
date: 2026-06-01
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* Went back to *A Unified Game-Theoretic Approach to Multiagent Reinforcement Learning* by Lanctot et al. 

## Notes
### Literature
1. Ah, this paper makes *so* much more sense! I mean, it took me over a month to get to this point, but still.
2. Immediately, the metric of joint-policy correlation appears to me to be *extraordinarily* useful. 
3. The paper demonstrates that the basic approach of independent reinforcement learning (where you're just wrapping up all of the added complexity of other agents into the environment and, well, doing nothing really) can lead to overfitting. 
4. Interestingly, the paper demonstrates that the overfitting problem becomes *worse* when partial observability is introduced. Yikes... so basically anything interesting. 
5. Ahhhhhh... I see. The policy space response oracle is just a generalization of double oracles - the former adds *policies*, or full strategies, whereas the latter adds *actions* and begins from a simple sub-game and gradually advances to the true game. 
6. The basic machinery that allows for these strategies to be generated is the fact that when you're carrying out the calculation of the best response you're setting your opponent policies as fixed. This means that your dynamics are Markovian and any RL algorithm can be used to obtain the best response. Nice!

## RL experiments
1. Reproducing the paper. It's a pain because a lot of architectural choices are encompassed in other papers. There was a point where I thought I had to build a backbone network because the paper mentions a formulation where actor and the critic have shared parameters. So, I build a backbone.
2. ...only to realise that the paper doesn't use a backbone and the experiments are run without it. Brother, why?
3. Slow progress. I want to get this implementation done by *Thursday*.


## Remarks
1. It's almost frustrating. This field is so rich, so powerful - there are so many wonderful results lurking around... but they're all from like fifty different fields! And you somehow have to know all of those fields! Is one lifetime enough??? 