---
layout: log 
title: Simple, simple 
date: 2026-05-05
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning, systems]
---

## Summary
* Started reading *A Survey and Critique of Multiagent Deep Reinforcement Learning* by Hernandez-Leal et al. 

## Notes
### Literature 
1. I skimmed through the bulk of this paper introduction. One of the great benefits of having spent months learning the fundamentals is that nearly all of the preamble was just a brush-up on what I've read many times before at this point.
2. **Decentralized learners**: An approach to MARL where single agent algorithms are employed in the multi-agent setting despite the underlying assumptions of these algorithms being violated.
3. Alright, just a recap:
    * Your environment is dependent on the action profiles of your opponents.
    * The action profiles of your opponents changes every round.
    * Your environment thus changes every round. 
    * Your problem is non-stationary.
4. Adversarial play has optimal-policy guarantees, but coordination play does not.
5. Crap, ran out of time again today. I suppose either Friday or Saturday will be a heavy reading day...

### RL experiments
1. Generated some plots and added to my write-up. A simple task for a simple man. :)
2. I'll be implementing some new tests tomorrow. Looking forward to it!

### Systems
1. Spent a bit of time reading about Rust. I'll be starting my main project - `project_orbital` on Thursday. I think I'm ready. 

## Remarks
1. My literature review discipline is slowly drifting out of control. I'm anticipating spending quite a lot of time on Sunday to get this back to normal...