---
layout: log 
title: I'm a ReBel
date: 2026-06-07
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
1. Read *Combining Deep Reinforcement Learning and Search for Imperfect-Information Games* by Brown et. al.
2. Started reading some excerpts from *Multiagent Systems: Algorithmic, Game-Theoretic,
and Logical Foundations* by Shoham and Leyton-Brown.

## Notes
### Literature
1. The combination of deep reinforcement learning with search - basically the `AlphaGo` approach. I really ought to read that paper again now that I have added context.
2. The algorithm described in this paper, `ReBel`, is described as a generalized version of `AlphaZero` for imperfect information games, to the point where it even behaves like `AlphaZero` given perfect information conditions. 
3. The crux of the issue here: "unlike perfect-information games and single-agent settings, the value of an action may depend on the probability it is chosen".
4. This paper makes use of ideas from POMDP literature, which I haven't yet had to fortune to come across. The basic idea is simple enough, though - a multi-agent generalization of a probability distribution over states.
5. Alright, so you can transform a game from an imperfect information game into a perfect (continuous) information game by adding a common knowledge probability distribution for all of the missing information. 
6. It was *very* confusing reading this paragraph for the first time. The strategic situation described as being identical to the imperfect information case didn't seem anywhere near it! The caveat is described later in the paper.   
7. **Public belief state**: A history in the belief representation, or a trajectory of probabilities associated with every action and every unknown. 
8. Alright, so safe search is just where you restrict your search to avoid exploitability whereas unsafe search means that you're simply maximizing value. Got it, I think?
9. Interesting paper, but definitely something else that I need to build in order to truly understand. It's also very funny that the authors have declined to release the code in order to prevent cheating in online games!  
  
## Remarks
1. It's weird how there aren't really any sharp boundaries in the field of reinforcement learning. POMDPs, MARL, self-play... all blur into a single field at the very deepest levels.
