---
layout: log 
title: Reinforcement, no learning
date: 2026-04-18
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* Got my head around contraction mapping in reinforcement learning.
* Started writing the technical note for the `REINFORCE` algorithm.
* Read chapter 6 of the MITOpenCourseware lecture notes on Nash equilibrium. 
* Read relevant sections of Chapter 12 of Osbourne.

## Notes
1. The hardest thing about understanding contraction mapping is the shift from seeing the Bellman equation as a collection of functions to a single operator that acts on a value function. After that, it's just a matter of remembering definitions!

### RL Experiments
1. My main course of action was to build up the preamble for the `REINFORCE` algorithm. Writing about something is a really, really nice exercise... because you quickly realise that you didn't understand it the first time you read about it.
2. I'm halfway through getting this definition down - hoping to have it finished by tomorrow. :) 

### Literature review
1. Most the MIT notes were perfectly straightforward. I did however think that the evolution of the Hawk-Dove game example was really, really cool. Demonstrating that ramifications of Nash equilibrium for a single step over an entire trajectory was quite surprising!
2. Ah, rationalizability. This is the kind of adversarial stuff that I like!
    * A belief is a probability distribution over opponent actions. It represents *your* understanding of the likelihood of your opponents moves.
    * A **rational** player is one who chooses their actions to maximise their expected payoff over their belief.
    * If your belief is correct, then your rational selection is merely the Nash equilibrium of the game you're playing.
    * Huh? When would non-equilibrium actions be optimal? *Ah*, when your assumptions on how the players are operating are correct, but the response to that doesn't lead to an equilibrium. Basically, when they're making a mistake?
3. The jargon in this field is wild. There are specific names for basically everything, which is made worse by the fact that all these definitions have very ready common sense examples. Like seriously... *never best response*? Why? 
4. Weak domination is where there's a possibility that an action is at the very least equal to the action of it's opponent. That is, it is never better on all situations and strictly worse in one situation.
5. I'm going to read about repeated games tomorrow and then compile a literature review on how all of what I've learned this weak relates to adversarial reinforcement learning. 

### Systems
1. Finished the parallelism chapter. Ultimately, there wasn't much I didn't already know - I've been using a lot of parallelism and multiprocessing at work. Further, the `asynchio` and concurrency modules were less relevant to me than most things given that I don't really ever need IO concurrency. Still, it's good to be aware of them. 

## Remarks
1. Long day. I've gotten quite a bit done, but I need to be a bit more focused. I should have rocketed through the derivation... but there's time to do this tomorrow. 
2. The game theory write-up is going to be *tough*. I need to somehow relate this to reinforcement learning, which I know is going to require quite a lot of careful and thorough thinking.