---
layout: log
title: I do not trust this policy 
date: 2026-03-09
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* More progress reading *Trust Region Policy Optimization* by Schulman et al.  

## Notes
1. Okay, so where were we? The basic premise of the TRPO paper is that
    * You can derive an iterative procedure for generating guaranteed monotonic improvements to a given policy.
    * The authors demonstrate this by defining the improvement in Policy 1 over Policy 2 by directly specifying the expected return of the P1 in terms of the visitation frequencies of P2.
    * You could use this expression of relative improvement in terms of advantage to generate better policies: simply tweak the parameters of a policy and use the expression to compare it. However, this is intractable because the visitation counts of the policies have to be evaluated anew - you can't know this without actually running the policy. As such, the authors use a small *local* change in the policy. This small change allows us to approximate the visitation frequencies of the two policies as being roughly equal. 
3. To summarize the main approximation, here's a *new* objective that has to be minimised: this is what the paper refers to as $$L$$: the expected advantage of the new policy, calculated using the state visitation frequencies of the old policy.
4. The problem becomes a scoping of the minimal amount by which you'd can change a policy before visitation frequencies become too dissimilar for the previous approximation to hold. There's a standard approach mentioned in the paper called conservative policy iteration, which from what I understand introduces a penalty term on the objective that quantifies the maximum possible loss in changing your distribution.

## Remarks
1. A slow day again. I'm picking up my pace, but I am staying with my girlfriend's family and I can't hole myself away doing RL study! I don't even want to, if I'm honest: I want to make good use of the limited time that I have with these wonderful people. :) 