---
layout: log 
title: On the verge of PPO + a lightbulb moment
date: 2026-07-05
math: True
tags: [deep-learning, reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
1. Finished my A2C and batched A2C experiments. PPO implementations start tomorrow.
2. More work on *Tutorial on Variational Autoencoders* by Doersch.

## Notes
### RL experiments
1. My experimental harness has been built. I've run a bunch of experiments and I now believe that I'm at a point where I should be able to implement PPO without issues. 

### Deep learning
1. Right, I get what is going on. This actually makes perfect sense. Let's break it down:
2. You have *two* functions: the posterior distribution, which is responsible for mapping the input into latent space, and the generative distribution which actually reconstructs observations from the latent space. The former is the encoder and the later is the decoder.
3. The first term of the ELBO is the expected log-likelihood of the generative distribution, given samples from the posterior distribution. The goal of this term is to make sure that the latent variable to real observation mapping is accurate.
4. Now, the *second*- holy shit, I just had a lightbulb moment. The second term, which is the KL divergence between the posterior distribution and a standard normal distribution. The goal of this term is *regularization* - if you just maximise the first term, you'll just get a situation where your distribution has really tight regions for all of your inputs. You won't be able to carry out any inference between two points! And so, forcing your posterior to be a normal distribution allows smooth continuity. You're taming the chaos of latent space by forcing it to remain in a good, usable form. Lovely stuff. :) 
5. The reparameterizaton trick is a... well, *trick*... that allows you to avoid too much sampling for the reconstruction loss. Encoders, which map to gaussians, will provide a probability distribution that must be sampled from. You can't carry out backprop over a random output... so you have to 
    * Sample a noise vector from *outside the networks*. 
    * Reconstruct the latent variable deterministically by scaling and shifting using the encoder's outputs...? I'm stuck. How does *that* work...?

## Remarks 
1. One lightbulb turns on. Another turns off. Such is the way. 