---
layout: log 
title: We're going in
date: 2026-05-16
math: True
tags: [systems]
---

## Summary
* Read two chapters from *Designing Data-Intensive Applications*. 

## Notes
### Systems
1. The problem of reliability is really interesting. I'm wondering how this might come into play when thinking about an RL problem. What do the failure modes look like in distributed RL? 
2. The actual process of RL is simple. In fact, the *learning* process doesn't require much at all - there's just a data collection step and an update step.
3. The failure mode of the data collection step is asynchronicity, lag, stale data and so on... ah, I can see why this kind of latency is really important to get a handle on.
4. Maintainability is another step, although I think in RL that a lot of the complexity can be mitigated by carefully chosen architecture decisions.
5. Ah, data models! It's been a while since I had to look into this. :)
6. This is a really good book. I have never thought about data models in levels of abstraction before.
7. I went deep into query languages a few years ago when I was grinding out interview prep for data science roles. A lot of this chapter was quite simple for me. 

## Remarks
1. What a *weird day*. Both of my favorite study spots were closed - the Arnolfini reading room was closed for a private event and Bristol Central library was closed because of a power cut. What are the chances?
2. I wanted to generate some figures for my `REINFORCE` write up but I didn't manage to get that done. Need to fix up!