---
layout: log 
title: Inference engineering 
date: 2026-03-16
math: True
tags: [artificial-intelligence]
---

## Summary
* Read 10% of *Inference Engineering* by Philip Kiely.

## Notes
1. Started reading a new, lighter book on AI model shipping at scale. This is a *very* new book, having been released a few months ago.
2. I do not agree with the preamble for Chapter 1. It completely misses the essence of a trade-off in optimization and I don't think that "introducing more constraints" is ever a means of producing a better output. An unconstrained problem has the same solutions as a constrained problem... *just significantly more possible solutions, too*. This should be fleshed out to justify it.
3. **Shared inference**: pay per given set of tokens sent to a public API endpoint. Associated with closed-source models.
4. **Dedicated deployments**: set up a bespoke inference service, running on GPUs. Associated with open-source models!
5. *Over time*, one must shift to a dedicated deployments. This allows specialisation, orchestration and most importantly *scale*.
    * That being said, the issue of orchestration - making multiple models/data pipelines/etc work in tandem - is quite interesting to me. Are multiple models typically used in parallel? How does that work? Why?

## Remarks
1. Today was the main wedding day, so I squeezed in some study time around the lulls in the event. Can't stop, won't stop. 
2. ...this book feels quite heavily AI-generated. I suppose that the content has been carefully vetted and I can see the work that has gone into it, but it feels like I'm reading the output of a ChatGPT prompt.
3. I might see if I can finish this whole book in the flight tomorrow once I've read all the papers that I need to. I've finally reached the PPO paper, so that can come tomorrow too...