---
layout: log
title: Love of the game
date: 2026-03-03
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* Read [RL102: From Tabular Q-Learning to Deep Q-Learning (DQN)](https://araffin.github.io/post/rl102/) by Antonin Raffin. 
* More work on value iteration.

## Notes
### Literature 
1. Recap, for my sake: 
    * Q-learning is a temporal difference techniqiue that attempts to carry out a bootstrapped estimate of the Q function. The estimated Q-function is iteratively improved by adjusting it's value with the temporal difference error (multiplied by a learning rate).
    * Q-learning is an off-policy method. You can use a stochastic or $$\epsilon$$-greedy policy to generate the states, but the final policy will be greedy with respect to the estimated value function. 
2. The essence of deep-Q learning is to replace the tabular lookup table typically employed in Q-learning with a function approximator that can handle large state spaces.
3. Ah... so the target Q-network is the frozen (or no, *periodically updated*) network that is used to calculate the temporal difference error. I see it! In normal deep learning, you have to minimize the loss of the model. In deep reinforcement learning, because of the timesteps inherent to the problem, it makes more sense to *minimise the error between your guess and the expected reward that you sample*. Of course, the circularity that emerges here is that you have to use your estimate in order to calculate the expected reward that you sample, which is why the target network is distinct. I guess that this is almost a moving target... wait, no, it *absolutely is* a moving target.
4. Experience replay is all good. Nothing too challenging here..  
5. This was a really nicely written overview. Something that I would definitely expect from Antonin Raffin!

### Reinforcement learning experiments
1. Playing around with value iteration. It's actually pretty wild how poorly the algorithm fares with a stochastic reward. Switch to a deterministic reward and you immediately have excellent convergence.
2. *Granted*, having just looked at the algorithm from Sutton and Barto, the average *is* taken over the reward too... implementing with an average reward will likely fix this for later. This will have to wait for tomorrow...

## Remarks
1. Was feeling a little tired today and didn't want to waste time diving into a paper that I wouldn't have been able to understand. As such, I went for something just a little easier today. :)
2. It's a hard time to be a technical person with AI coming and doing all sorts of cool stuff. I was wondering again today - why am I doing this at all? What do I seek to get out of it? Will I end up writing a blog that nobody reads for the next few years with nothing to show for it?
3. Then I realised that I don't really care. I just like being focused and learning about complex phenomena, of which reinforcement learning is perhaps the most complex I've seen so far. I do this for the love of the game, not because I expect to get anything out of it. 