---
layout: log 
title: Finished the paper, finally
date: 2026-05-28
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning, systems]
---

## Summary
* Finished reading *QMIX: Monotonic Value Function Factorisation for Deep Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning* by Rashid et. al.
* Did more Rust puzzles. 

## Notes
### Literature
1. Ah, I get what's going on with the weights now. It's a mathematical hack that allows the decomposition constraint on the action-value function to be true. I mean, the class of functions that can be approximated is reduced, but I'm not surprised that this is still powerful enough to carry out complex MARL simulations.
2. It is really interesting how hypernetworks are used to handle non-stationarity and state dependence. I wonder how long these things take to train, though?
3. I need to start messing about these networks. I need to blot out some time, sit down and train the hell out of these complex architectures. I don't have an instinct for how networks train with respect to an environment yet...
4. The core element of this paper is the monotonicity, as well as the apparatus used to both enforce and support this constraint. I suppose that a lot of these methods are combination based - the goal is to find a way of combining individual Q-functions in a way that they allow for synergy rather than competition.

### Systems 
1. Firing through these Rust puzzles. I want to finish these quickly so I can move on to making my new environment ASAP.  

## Remarks
1. I am now ready to carry out my literature review on multi-agent reinforcement learning algorithms. Took a bit of time, didn't it?