---
layout: log 
title: Rising intensity
date: 2026-03-21
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning, software-engineering]
---

## Summary
* More work on reinforcement learning experiments - finished value iteration and policy iteration. 
* Continued reading *Effective Python*.
* Read *IMPALA: Scalable Distributed Deep-RL with Importance Weighted Actor-Learner Architectures* by Espeholt et al. 

## Notes
### Literature
1. **IMPALA** - Importance weighted actor-learner architecture.
2. The claim with this architecture is that 
    * It makes single-machine training more efficient,
    * It scales very well to thousands of machines without sacrificing data-efficiency or resource utilisation. 
3. The key advances in this paper seem to be the decoupling of the actor and the learner with an off-policy correction method. It's not particularly clear whether or not this is a systems paper or a brand-new technique...
4. This is the first paper that I've seen in a while that explicitly focuses on multi-task reinforcement learning. All of the other deep reinforcement learning methods that have built up to this point have been single task, even the Atari agents: a new agent was trained for each task.
5. Alright, first impressions are that instead of communicating updates, the workers actually send full trajectories to the learner. As in, they experience a full game and then send it over to the learner in order to update the policy. 
6. This will of course mean that learning is made off-policy, but *V-traces* are used to counter this. Interesting...
7. Batching is a common issue in parallelising RL, it looks like. The problem arises when you're bottlenecked by the slowest environment.
8. Hm. I'm realising something here: these techniques can't easily be extended to adversarial games where something like self-play would be useful. Or maybe they can and I just have to keep reading.
9. Oh, damn: keep this in mind - `IMPALA` uses an LSTM to handle partially observable environments and maintain memory over time. This is new - the other papers I've read so far seem to solely employ MLPs at best. 
10. Let's go through this step-by-step:
    1. Actor updates it's policy to the latest learner policy.
    2. Actor uses policy to generate a trajectory of experience. 
    3. After n-steps, the actor sends the generated trajectory and initial LSTM state to the learner via a queue. This decoupling allows the actor to be distributed.
    4. The learner updates its policy on batches of trajectories that come from a set of actors. The batching allows for the learner to be accelerated via GPU, with decoupling taking place by folding in the time dimension into the batch. This removes the need for maintaining the MDP signal as a sequence.
    5. V-trace is applied to correct for the policy update lag.
11. But what is V-trace? Why am I being kept on the edge of my seat like this?
12. Oof. This explanation of V-trace is quite difficult. I'm not following it...
13. The hot-chocolate place I go to do read my papers on saturday is about to close and alas, I'm still stuck. No idea how V-trace is supposed to work - I'll need to sit down and grind this one out. Might have to use AI to explain this one! 

### Reinforcement learning experiments
1. Value iteration and policy iteration are now included. I'm very happy with the results: despite being two different methods, each time I run them I get the same optimum policy and value function.
2. I wrote up the insights that I obtained in a technical note - my very first. Hooray!

### Software engineering
1. Recap for my sake: a meta class is just a class that inherits from `type` and intercepts class creation by overriding `__new__`. You typically apply a meta class to a class by including it in the class definition as `metaclass=`.
2. Holy crap, I just realised that the class registry pattern is probably a component to the solution of a problem that has been plaguing me for a while.
    * This is where you use a central mapping to track and retrieve classes by a unique key. 
    * You're basically decoupling the architecture so that new functionality can be added dynamically without modifying the core system.
3. I much, much prefer class decorators over meta classes. This is *way* closer to how I think about Python in general. These are just functions that take in classes and return modified versions of the class. 
4. Okay, we're at concurrency and parallelism. **Awesome**. This is something I really want to master. 
5. I do however want to return to metaclasses. I don't really think I explored them with the level of seriousness that I'm now going to be directing to parallelism and concurrency. I'm going to dedicate a literature review session over the next week to reading a more condensed introduction to metaclasses. 

## Remarks
1. I feel a *lot* better. We're making it out of the doldrums today. 
2. This is the first time that I've come across something in reinforcement learning that has stopped me in my tracks. V-trace... what's going on here???