---
layout: log 
title: Post-training
date: 2026-07-22
math: True
tags: [foundation-models]
---

## Summary
1. Started reading *Large Language Model Post-Training: A Unified View of Off-Policy and On-Policy Learning* by Zhao et al. 

## Literature review
1. A lot of post-training literature is heavily related to reinforcement learning. The idea of off-policy and on-policy training survive in this field.
2. What is different, however, are the descriptions of what post-training actually does. 
    * Effective behaviour expansion, where useful behaviours are made more reliably reachable,
    * policy reshaping, which *improves* behaviour, and
    * behavioural consolidation, which is intended to preserve model behaviour.
3. It is these behaviours that determine the role of a post-training technique.
    * SFT - support expansion/policy reshaping,
    * On-policy RL - policy reshaping (to the extent of allowing stronger reasoning)
    * Distillation - behaviour consolidation.
4. The techniques mentioned above are emphasized to be different ways of intervening on the same object: they are tools that achieve different effects. 
5. Post-training design is a *major source* of performance differences among frontier systems.
6. **The main question of post-training design**: "how does one establish useful behavior, refine it on learner-generated states, and preserve it across stage transitions?"
7. Figure 1 is *excellent*.
8. This is the first time I've seen LLMs described in RL language. To recap,
    1. The current prefix (feature) is the state,
    2. The word to be predicted (label) is the action,
    3. The full output sequence, being a repeated generation of actions with respect to a changing state, is the trajectory.
    4. Presumably, rewards are defined in some post-training algorithms, whereas the *environment* is... what, exactly? In general, the LLM environment is trivial, as it only serves to link the words together. But can it become more complex?
9. It's not that RL applies to language modelling - RL is just a very, very general technique. 
10. This is a massive, massive eye-opener. I want to keep reading, but I've run out of time at lunch. :(  

## Foundation models
1. I see. The embedding layer is a matrix that essentially encodes the entire vocabulary. Of course, the layer can be *tuned*, which is what makes it so powerful. However, as mentioned in the book this is nothing more complex than one-hot encoding. Got it.
2. **Embeddings**: there are different types of embedding, namely
    * Position-aware embeddings, which are associated with the specific positions of a sequence. This is specifically where you add a position embedding vector to the original token embeddings, changing the value of the weights directly.
    *  Relative positional embeddings, which learn a measure of how far apart words are rather than their specific positions. These are which you use if you have sequences of varying lengths.
3. Chapter finished. Time to build. :)  
 
## Remarks
1. Will be a slow day today and tomorrow. I'm in London helping my parents move in. The LLM barrage will not end, though. :) 
