---
layout: log 
title: Playing without knowing the rules
date: 2026-04-12
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
1. Made further attempts at going through the MARL reading list.  
2. Spent some time studying *Game theory*.

## Notes
1. This paper is not making sense to me. Fundamentally, I'm getting too confused on the language here - this isn't even a jargon issue, because normally I can get through jargon with a bit of patience. 
2. Okay, at this point I should cut my losses. I'm simultaneously working on the literature review for the last week, but I realise that I don't have enough solid understanding of the reading that I've been doing in order to even start with a condensed literature review. That is something *genuinely* wrong in the way that I'm looking at this work. 
3. I realise the issue now. **Multi-agent reinforcement learning isn't a field of RL**. It's a field of *game theory*. I'm coming at this field after three months of focus on RL. I have the understanding of RL mechanics, but I don't have nearly enough understanding of game theory to truly comprehend what is going on here. 
4. I'm going to skip this week's literature review and tone down the focus on reading papers until I develop enough of a grasp of game theory to carry out this reading effectively. The literature review that I produce can then be used as a contained guide to the theoretical foundations of MARL. 
5. In a sense, this is a good thing: it'll allow my RL implementations to catch up with my literature reviews. It's a shame that I've missed a literature review week, but this had to happen. 

## Remarks
1. A very slow day today - little in the way of results. Part of this has been discussed already, but there's also the fact tha I'm feeling a little bit off today. I may have a fever coming along.