---
layout: log 
title: Work getting in the way of work
date: 2026-05-11
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* Finished reading *Multi-Agent Actor-Critic for Mixed Cooperative-Competitive Environments* by Lowe et al. 

## Notes
### Literature
1. You *need* Markov assumptions to be in place if you want Q-learning to converge. Again, you  also cannot use an experience replay buffer for the same reason: experience that you learn is no longer appropriate when the environment has suddenly shifted.
2. There's a proof in this paper stating that the probability of taking the correct step reduces proportionally to the number of agents in the game. Oof...
3. Okay, there's something important to note here.
    1. The Q-function used in this DDPG style update is augmented *not* by parameter sharing, but by *the actions of the other agents*. *This* is what is shared within the training step.
    2. The parameters are independent to each agent. This is what allows independent execution. 
    3. Another tool used by the agents is an independently inferred approximation of the parameters of the other agents. This is carried out by simply maximising the log probability of the agents actions with respect to the inferred approximation of the policy.
    4. Ah, another very important change to handle non-stationarity: the algorithm trains a *collection* of sub-policies. The sub-policy that is selected for execution is randomly chosen and an *ensemble* objective is employed within the place of the single policy objective. 
    5. This makes sense - it's sort of like having a bunch of strategies in play for changing situations. 
4. Oof. This makes a *huge* difference as opposed to the single agent variant. Damn.
5. Oooooh. The actor-critic algorithm compared to the REINFORCE algorithm is *really* interesting.... but MADDPG mogs them all, as the youth might say.
6. Really interesting paper!

### RL experiments
1. Ran a longer simulation using actor critic and maxed out the `cartpole-v1`. Woohoo!
2. This changes a lot. I'm probably going to have to rewrite a lot of my write-up, eh... 
  
## Remarks
1. It is *crazy* how implementing even the precursor method to `PPO` has become so useful. I'm seeing things in a completely different light by having a very strong mental model of the process in my mind.
2. I have a work event tomorrow and another one on Tuesday. I really, really want to get back to my RL experiments... but for the next two days the best I'll be able to do is read a paper every day. Sad!