---
layout: log 
title: Farewell to classical RL 
date: 2026-04-09
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* Finished reading *Planning in the Presence of Cost Functions Controlled by an Adversary* by McMahan et al.

## Notes
### Literature 
1. Okay, so the issue is that *part of the solution is not known to the agent as it's planning*. I assumed that, from the writing, the agent would discover sensors throughout the algorithm. What is *actually* going on is that the agent conducts the plan with no knowledge of what cost function the adversary has selected. In fact, the agent doesn't have the capability to adapt against the agent! 
2. ... oof. That *isn't* realistic. It's a way simpler problem than where the agent is actively adapting against the adversary.
3. At that point you're adapting against *mean* behaviour. That... kinda sucks? 
4. I *can*, however, think of situations where this could be really useful in my particular domain. Obviously, I cannot say. :) 
5. Okay, I *kinda* see what the single oracle is doing here. It's a black box that spits out the best policy for a single cost vector - I guess the point here is that it stops you from having to enumerate every policy.
6. The rough idea, then, is that you can use a double set of oracles - one for the agent and one for the adversary, in order to iteratively change up the policy and the cost vector. 
7. Eventually, this should converge to an optimum.
8. Right, what are the key ideas here?
    * It's something similar to self-play where you're adaptively exploring a set of possible strategies, solving for the cost function, identifying strategies that counter that cost function and so on.
    * The issue here is that you eventually get a Nash equilibrium. However, like self-play, this will depend on the strategies that you start off with - they could all be absolutely terrible. Essentially, the algorithm *could* be sensitive to initial conditions. 
9. This paper was *rough*. I need to get better at optimization theory... 

### RL experiments 
1. I got way too confident yesterday. Whilst the results look much better overall, double Q-learning is seriously underperforming `SARSA` and Q-learning.
2. Why, though?
    * I've added noise to GridWorld and even a slipping parameter that causes noise in the overall environment. This has actually made double Q-learning worse... but I thought that double Q-learning was good when handling very noisy environments?
    * No. I'm misunderstanding. Double Q-learning is designed to handle a particular consequence of noise: *overestimation bias*. This is when the algorithm uses the maximum estimated value to represent a state... **which can't occur in my GridWorld because all of my rewards are negative and mostly quite consistent**. 
    * What if I increase the noise of the rewards? What if I make it so that the noise dominates, to the point where some states even appear *positive*? 
    * **That fixes it**. There we go!