---
layout: log 
title: Farewell to classical RL
date: 2026-04-08
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* Started reading *Planning in the Presence of Cost Functions Controlled by an Adversary* by McMahan et al.

## Notes
### Literature 
1. This paper treats the adversarial problem as the setting of a cost-function by the opponent against the player. That is, the cost-function changes because of the action of the opponent.
2. Hm. This is a bit of mind-bomb. Can I represent any problem like this? For example, take chess. How can I think about it is as the cost-function engineering against a player? Further,  how might the dynamics of the process change if *both* players are setting cost functions (as in, if they're playing the same game?)
3. **Best response oracle**: a black box that, given a specific strategy, will output a counter strategy that maximises the pay-off of the opponent. This is something of a conceptual tool that allows analysis in game-theoretic situations, although in the paper the BROs are actual algorithms that can be employed for path-finding.
4. The planning agent cannot observe the adversary’s affect on the cost vector - this is called the *no-observation* constraint and is applied because allowing observations causes the problem to become a partially observable MDP. 
    * This is a bit confusing. I'm guessing that this means that, if *anything* is possible, the agent can optimize against the mean cost vector. However, if parts of the solution are known, then... huh? Wouldn't that just make it easier?
    * No, I've definitely formulated this incorrectly in my mind. 
    * I've also run out of time during my lunchbreak. Oof!

### RL Experiments 
1. I implemented grid-world and that has fixed everything - results are looking *much* better. Write-up coming this weekend, but for now I'm happy to bid farewell to classical RL. This feels like a real victory. :) 

## Remarks
1. This is a tougher paper than I anticipated and, due to starting my lunch hour later, I only had about twenty minutes to get through it. 