---
layout: log 
title: I can't crash out, that's low payoff 
date: 2026-04-24
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning, software-engineering]
---

## Summary
1. Finished reviewing relevant aspects of *A simple adaptive procedure leading to correlated equilibrium* by Hart and Mas-Colel.
2. Got through a chapter of *Effective Python*.

## Notes
### Literature 
1. The main question that the authors are trying to investigate is whether or not one can learn a correlated equilibrium by adapting to past information. The signal here that drives the players into a correlated equilibrium is the information that they gain from the past: the *shared history* of play.
2. The regret matching procedure is given as:
    * Given a period of repeating games, a player might choose to maintain his strategy or switch a new strategy - the switch is weighted by how much his *accumulated* reward would have been had he always played that strategy in the past. 
    * Essentially, you're comparing 
        1. The regret the player has currently accumulated,
        2. To the regret that the player would have accumulated if he played an strategy $a$ instead of the current action whenever the choice came up.
    * Only those strategies that have a lower possible total regret if always switched to are sampled from, and they're sampled from with respect to the difference in regret.
3. Now the issue I'm having here is *how is the agent supposed to evaluate how well another move might have worked if they'd played it*? Wouldn't that require them to *play* that move at the time, too? What if that move is also probabilistic - as in, sometimes it can win, but sometimes it will also lose? You'd have to learn the value of the action too.
4. The point here, I suppose, is that we're not really optimizing for value: the value changes. We're optimising for the fact that the *opponent* is playing a set of standard moves and in the past, we'll have explored answers to that set of moves. Got it!

### Systems
1. Managed to get through a full chapter of *Effective Python* today, mostly on robustness and performance. A lot of the stuff in this chapter were techniques that I've looked into already. I have about ten years of experience using Python now. 
2. I'm in London over the weekend, so I anticipate that my personal study will be slow. Regardless, I'll be trying hard to get some progress in...