---
layout: log 
title: In hindsight
date: 2026-03-26
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* Finished *Hindsight experience replay* by Andrychowicz et al. 

## Notes
### Literature
1. Okay, awesome. *Hindsight Experience Replay* is a technique this is used for reinforcement learning in **sparse** settings. This saves from complicated and often destructive reward engineering.
2. **Implicit curriculum**: a form of curriculum learning where the problem is gradually made harder within the same environment. 
3. The paper is motivated by learning from an *undesired* outcome as much as from a desired outcome.
4. *"Imagine that you are learning how to play hockey and are trying to shoot a puck into a net. You hit the puck but it misses the net on the right side. The conclusion drawn by a standard RL algorithm in such a situation would be that the performed sequence of actions does not lead to a successful shot, and little (if anything) would be learned. It is however possible to draw another conclusion, namely that this sequence of actions would be successful if the net had been placed further to the right."* 
5. The example given in the paper of a problem that RL can't solve is a really good explanation of sparse reward. Trying to find a target state within $$2^50$$ possible solutions and getting a reward of $$-1$$ throughout is literally finding a needle in a haystack.
6. The comparison graph in figure 1 is *incredible*. HER is really, really good...
7. The first new feature is is that the networks in HER don't just take in a state, but a *goal*. The goal is implicity included in the information provided to the policy and value functions. The goal is defined as a predicate and the reward value is thus a Boolean.
8. But what if you don't know your goal, or you have a vague understanding of the goal? If you can't even put your goal into words, or if your understanding of the goal is limited in some way. What do you do then?
9. In summary, Hindsight Experience Replay works like so:
    1. Run an episode,
    2. Store every state transition with *the original goal* as well as a subset of other goals.
    3. You can replay the trajectory with any arbitrary goal, as the goal itself is independent of the environment dynamics.
10. This algorithm is really good for search, but how applicable is it for discovery?  
11. Okay, let's pretend that I'm a RL agent.
    1. I try and get to a particular point in a valley.
    2. I amble around and finally get somewhere that is not that point.
    3. I think to myself "Well, if this *was* where I wanted to end up then the actions that I took to get here would have been perfect".
    4. I make the connection between my actions and "getting to places".
    5. I'm soon able to get to the place that I want to get to.
12. This is a really, really weird technique.  
13. I'm missing some context. There is a missing building block in my thinking that is making this difficult. This is why there's a gaping hole in my understanding of this technique.
14. What exactly is a universal value function approximator? Is this just a normal neural network?
    *  A UVFA learns a policy which *explicity* solves the question of what it must do in a given state *to achieve a particular goal*. This flexibility allows the agent to learn between intent and outcome.
15. Ah, looking at the algorithm, you can see that *every* step is given a goal. You're basically making it so that you get a reward *everwhere* by shifting your goalposts. That's a dense problem: you're going from a sparse reward problem to a dense reward problem. In fact, the reward dimension itself can almost be factored out so that the signal becomes that of just action, state and *goal* instead of reward...

### RL experiments
1. `SARSA` has been implemented and pushed. 
2. I'm getting into the rhythm of this. Awesome! :) 
  
## Remarks
* More practice. More coding, more implemention. I'm not just a theory consumer - I need to build.