---
layout: log 
title: Seedy, very seedy
date: 2026-05-04
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* Finished reading *A Comprehensive Survey of Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning* by Busconiu, Babuska and De Schutter.
* Built a testing harness for `REINFORCE`.

## Notes
### Literature 
1. The basic goals of MARL are described here as
    * **Stationarity** - that the policies of the agents converge to a stationary distribution, and
    * **Adaptability** - performance is maintained or improved as other agents are changing their policies. 
2. An additional set of axes that determine the algorithmic process is targeted goals: these are constraints that enforce a particular set of goals, be it optimality or safety. The presence of these constrains could make either of the first two goals unsustainable. Another basic axis comes from the constraint of opponent-aware or opponent-independent learning, where the actions of the opponents are employed within the learning process. 
3. It's worth mentioning that adaptibility can also be thought of as a task of *prediction*. A purely adaptive MARL algorithm will simply predict the behavior of the opponents as accurately as possible. This is pretty enlightening... adaption is prediction. 
4. Insight: an aggressive way of ensuring adaptability is to reduce the viable action set of the opponents. This is fundamentally because by reducing the possibilities available to the opponent, you make it easier to predict what they can do.
5. An interesting paper, but I'm going to skim over the algorithms - this paper is almost twenty years old and the algorithms that I'm interested in are worth being discussed in their own entries. 

### RL Experiements 
1. I built a harness for testing my algorithm. 
2. The algorithm is a bit shit, but my implementation is very bare-bones and I didn't expect it to work at all. It's worth mentioning that `REINFORCE` is supposed to be barely usable in practice: I'm guessing that the addition of a baseline is the first step necessary to make the algorithm work at all. 
3. I could have sworn that it's common practice to normalize rewards, too. I remember reading this in one of the earlier policy gradient papers. What's up with that? 
4. The subsequent development steps that I'm going to take are the following:
    * Tweak the architecture of the policy and made it deeper.
    * After investigating whether this is done with `REINFORCE`, add return normalization.
    * Implement `REINFORCE` with a baseline.

## Remarks
1. It's heating up. We're getting to a point where I'm intuitively understanding the implementation details behind the algorithms that I've been studying. It's only up from here!