---
layout: log 
title: Fixing priorities 
date: 2026-03-24
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* Finished *Prioritized experience replay* by Schaul.
* Spent a bit of time implementing a first visit Monte Carlo class in my RL experiments. 

## Notes
### Literature
1. Damn, it looks like even just being greedy with respect to TD error when sampling from experiences is enough to significantly improve sample efficiency. 
2. The issues with greedy TD sampling are that early states with low TD error might not be sampled at all. We also fall into the same issues as with overly optimistic choices where noisy reward signals throws off the whole approach...
3. Yeah, I expected as much when it came to priorities - this is essentially just the same kind of prioritization that you see in self-play variants. 
4. Alright, so the prioritization introduces bias by training more frequently on certain transitions. Changing $$\beta$$ tunes how the importance sampling kicks in: a low value will allow for exploration and the priorities aren't used as much for training, whereas setting it to 1 fully corrects the weights and removes bias.
5. Priorized replay speeds up training by about twice as much. *Damn*...

### RL experiments
1. Implemented most of the first visit MC algorithm. This was quite a simple algorithm to implement!
  
## Remarks
* Slow day today. I fell asleep for most of the afternoon and didn't get as much as I needed done. This is a reminder to *get my schedule under control*.
