---
layout: log 
title: Regret maximisation
date: 2026-04-20
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
1. Read Chapter 1 and part of Chapter 2 from *Prediction, Learning and Games* by Cesa-Bianchi and Lugosi.
2. Spent more time on my game theory write-up.

## Notes
1. We're moving onto regret minimization, specifically the minimisation of the total cumulative loss between a forecaster and a set of baseline model.
2. The **forecaster** attempts to predict the value of a sequence to which it has no assumption of the underlying stochastic process. The **experts**, on the other hand, also make predictions with which the forecaster can gauge the quality of its prediction. The difference in cumulative loss between the expert and the forecaster is called the **regret**.
3. Not that we never really compare against a *single* expert - the aim to is to be at least as good in hindsight as the best expert in a collection.
4. As such, it looks like the experts are really a set of comparison rules between predictions. These rules can be thought of black boxes. 
5. Okay, so the basic setting here is that
    * We have a forecaster computing predictions $$x_t$$ at time $$t$$.
    * The predictions of each are scored using a non-negative loss function. 
    * After all predictions are computed, the true value $$X_t$$ is revealed.
    * The forecaster and the experts are provided a loss with respect to $$X_t$$ and their own predictions. 
    * A cumulative difference in expert loss and forecaster loss is calculated after each timestep. This is what is referred to as the *regret*.
6. As such, this is a complete reframing of the repeated games I studied last week - it's a game between the forecaster and the environment and *close* to a reinforcement learning problem. It's not exactly an RL problem because there is no interaction between the environment and the forecaster (at least in this formulation).
7. All for today - lunch break was pushed back. :( 

## Remarks
1. I didn't manage to finish my literature review today - came home from work too late. This is taking longer than I'd like... I want to move on to my RL development as quickly as possible!