---
layout: log 
title: Going to the Gym
date: 2026-04-17
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* More time on the OpenAI Spinning up course.
    * Read *Intro to Policy Optimization*.
    * Read *Spinning Up as a Deep RL Researcher*. 
* Got `gymnasium` running and tested out a few environments.  

## Notes
### RL Experiments
1. Something that I've been getting confused about a lot: *trajectories are also called episodes or rollouts*.
2. Habits to maintain:
    * Keep things simple. Simplicity is the precursor to everything in this field.
    * Build a clear, detail-oriented understanding of what's going on within the algorithms.
    * Don't overfit to paper details or official implementations.
    * Iterate fast in simple environments.
    * If it doesn't work, assume there's a bug. Hyperparameter tweaking can only get you so far.
    * Measure everything. The experiment is not an event, it is a tool.
    * Scale experiments when things work.
3. Plunked around on some nice `gymnasium` environments and got everything working on systems. Proper work on the `REINFORCE` technical note starts tomorrow.

## Literature review
1. We've finally come to the very realistic scenario of players acting according to a probability distribution. Nice!
2. There are three levels of state in a game, from what I can see:
    1. Steady state, where players are completely deterministic.
    2. Mixed equilibrium, where players act randomly but the expected behaviour follows a fixed probability distribution.
    3. No equilibrium, where the players distribution actions change over time. A cursory search tells me that this is the regime of evolutionary game theory.
3. **Mixed strategy Nash equilibrium**: where players choose a probability distribution over their available actions rather than a single, fixed action. Every finite strategic game has at least one of a mixed strategy Nash equilibrium or a pure Nash equilibrium.
4. Strategy for calculating mixed strategy Nash equilibria:
    1. First, remove all of the strictly dominating strategies - these will never be part of a game where rational choice is the main assumption. This is also called *iterated elimination*.
    2. Apply the **indifference principle**,
        * Assign general probabilities to each action such that the sum of all action probabilities is 1. 
        * Express the expected pay-off of the opponent's options as functions of the player probabilities. 
        * For the opponent, set every expected pay-off as being equal, then solve the system of equations that result.
 
## Remarks
1. It's a shitty, rainy day in Bristol. I was walking to a hot chocolate cafe today and came up with a game that I'd like to solve.
2. **High-speed orbital warfare**:
    * Two opponent manned combat satellite are orbiting the Earth at extremely fast speeds. Their job is to shoot one another down.
    * Their action spaces are rotation, propulsion and firing an ultra fast rocket that has some degree of linear acceleration capability. 
    * The state transition function is given by two-dimensional orbital mechanics. It is a deterministic game and is fully observable.   