---
layout: log
title: bro that's so deep(-Q)
date: 2026-03-04
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* Read *Human-level control through deep reinforcement learning* by Mihn et al.

## Notes
### Literature 
1. "Remarkably, humans and other animals seem to solve this problem through a harmonious combination of reinforcement learning and hierarchical sensory processing systems, the former evidenced by a wealth of neural data revealing notable parallels between the phasic signals emitted by dopaminergic neurons and temporal difference reinforcement learning algorithms" - wait, what? That's **awesome**.
2. The paper outlines a few situations where deep reinforcement learning methods diverge:
    * Correlations present in the sequence of observations, which make it so that the data used for training the network is no longer independently and identically distributed. I also suppose that having highly correlated data would cause an agent to overfit to a particular kind of behaviour. I suppose that this is a temporal dependency though, isn't it? I guess this   is solved by experience replay within the paper.
    * Small updates to the Q-approximator cause large changes in the weights. This, I think, has a number of solutions.
3. The average score is *still* pretty noisy with Q-learning. Is that just an inherent feature of RL as a whole?
4. **Two-dimensional t-SNE embedding**: a non-linear dimensionality reduction technique used to visualize complex high-dimensional datasets by mapping data points into a 2D plane. The DeepMind team used this to visualize the Q-network's last layer when playing Space Invaders. I'm struggling to see the insight here, but I'm intrigued: I'm wondering whether other techniques that illuminate network structure have been developed.
 
### RL experiments 
1. Holy shit, my hunch from yesterday was in fact correct. In my `mdp` class, I'm generating stochastic rewards: there is a Gaussian noise that is added to each reward to simulate noisy reward signals. 
2. *The issue here is that I'm decoupling the reward from the transition probabilities*. The transition model is no longer enough to fully specify my model! Switching to deterministic rewards will fix it, *as will provicing a reward with known probabilities*.
3. And that's the essence of value iteration. You need to **know everything**. Even with the reward, you at the very least need to know the expected reward. 

## Remarks
1. ~~I just spent five minutes aimlessly staring at my screen. I'm afraid that today is one of those days where I necessarily have to keep it short. I am going to go to bed early~~ Absolutely not. Is this how long my resolve lasts? 62 days? That's what my promises to myself are worth? I'm making progress today no matter what.