---
layout: log
title: At the limit of my understanding
date: 2026-02-05
math: True
tags: [graph-neural-networks, reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* Read *What is an equivariant neural network?* by Lim and Nelson. 

## Notes
1. Equivariant functions are those that preserve symmetries in input and output. Invariance under a group is literally just a hallmark of symmetry - presumably, a equivariant neural network is one that exploits symmetry.
2. Wait. No. It's more complicated than that.
    * So... in this context, the linear maps are the weights of the neural networks.
    * The nonlinear maps are the activation functions. 
    * An equivariant network is one that *constrains these maps to be equivariant* - that is, follow the definition of equivariance as described in the first section.
3. "A major advantage of requiring equivariance in a neural network f is that it allows one to greatly narrow down the search space for the parameters that define $$f$$". I see - by forcing your layers and activation functions to be equivariant, you're basically _enforcing_ some kind of symmetry. The flip example in the paper basically motivates this as well as it can be motivated: normally, you'd require your network to learn that the two butterflies (one is flipped) are the same, whereas an equivariant neural network would know this by design.
4. Ah... I get it. After about an hour of wrestling with the mathematics, I get it. Equivariant neural networks are in a sense a generalization of convolutional neural networks. The convolution is invariant under translation (TL), although you can go further with an equivariant network: you can make it invariant under rotation and flips, too. 
5. This paper was very much teetering around the limit of my mathematical knowledge: it's been many years since I had to refer to representation theory. I need to refresh on some basic ideas before I jump into this, I think... but alternatively I'd also like to explore how these networks are engineered in practice. 

## Remarks
* Got my vaccines today for a trip to India next month. My arms hurt, damn it!
* Read my paper at a Yo! Sushi today. Got so into it that I forgot to track how much sushi I ate. This was a mistake. I do not recommend following this course of action in the future. 
* Wrapped up early today. Getting hit with vaccine side effects: I do not feel so good.
