---
layout: log 
title: Generally disadvantaged 
date: 2026-03-13
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* Started reading *High-dimensional continuous control using generalized advantage estimation* by Schulman et al.  

## Notes
1. "Policy gradient methods are an appealing approach in reinforcement learning because they directly optimize the cumulative reward and can straightforwardly be used with nonlinear function approximators such as neural networks".  This is something I should imbibe into memory so that I can summon it at will when people ask why policy-gradient methods ought to be used at all.
2. "We address the first challenge by using value functions to substantially reduce the variance of policy gradient estimates at the cost of some bias" - isn't this what baselines and actor-critic does anyway?
3. Ah... the main advance here is the use of the exponentially-weighted estimator of the advantage function.
4. Recap: `TD($$\lambda$%)`.
    * This is a method in-between TD(0), which is the temporal difference method where all steps after the first play no part in the calculation of the advantage, and TD(1), which is the full Monte Carlo sampling approach with all steps until conclusion contributing. 
    * Note: $$\lambda$$ is something of a fading parameter: it weights immediate rewards heavily and later actions less heavily. Setting $$\lambda \in (0,1)$$ implies that you're looking forward.
    * This technique is a solution to the credit assignment problem. It allows a more intelligent distribution of the credit throughout a sequence of moves. Nice!
5. Okay. Generalized advantage estimation is the use of an *exponentially-weighted estimator of the advantage function*. Got it. 
6. Note to self: trust region policy optimization is strong as a means of *training neural networks*. This is the essence behind the idea - it's very much in the *deep* side of deep reinforcement learning.

## Remarks
1. It is... quite hard to read papers when you're on holiday. Still, something is better than nothing! 
2. I'm supposed to be up at 5AM tomorrow, but I'm not ready to make light of my own promise. As such, we will just be tired tomorrow. :) 