---
layout: log 
title: Fade out
date: 2026-06-08
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
1. More reading from Chapter 7 of *Multiagent Systems: Algorithmic, Game-Theoretic, and Logical Foundations* by Shoham and Leyton-Brown.

## Notes
### Literature
1. A *Stackleberg* game is just a game in which a first-move advantage is present. It's a competition where a *leader* sets a move and the *follower*, well, follows.
2. "However, in a repeated-game setting agent 1 has an opportunity to put his payoff where his mouth is, and adopt the role of a teacher. That is, player 1 could repeatedly play T; presumably, after a while player 2, if he has any sense at all, would get the message and start responding with R" - yes, this is exactly what I've experience when playing around with these kinds of games when employing simulators. The issue is that the opportunity to present oneself as a teacher only makes sense when there's an incentive to do for.
3. *Learning* can emerge from coordination, withouth the presence of a teacher. 
4. A misconception that I've been holding - **fictitious play** is a learning rule where an agent guesses that the frequency of actions played by the opponent in the past is his current mixed strategy and so plays the best response to the historical assumption. Likewise, **self-play** is where agents simply adopt the same strategy for all evaluation steps.
5. **If learning is the answer, what is the question?**
    * The question is: 
    * Note: there's a distinction between descriptive and prescriptive theories, where the former is how people actually learn and the latter is how people *actually* learn.  
6. A nice definition: *A learning rule is universally consistent, or Hannan consistent, or exhibits no regret (these are all synonymous terms), if, loosely speaking, against any set of opponents it yields a payoff that is no less than the payoff the agent could have obtained by playing any one of his pure strategies throughout*.
  
## Remarks
1. My aunt passed away today, so I wasn't able to make any progress on projects. Spent a bit of time cleaning up repos on the train, but right now does not seem to be the right time for research.