---
layout: log 
title: Estimating my disadvantage
date: 2026-03-15
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* Continued reading *High-dimensional continuous control using generalized advantage estimation* by Schulman et al.  

## Notes
1. Interesting - the formulation of `TD($$\lambda$$)` operates with an *undiscounted* problem - the discount is actually absorbed into the reward function, which makes it time-dependent instead of having it as a fixed geometric sum.
2. There's a really nice summary of policy gradient methods in this paper. In fact, the preliminaries here are potentially the absolute best short summary of policy gradient methods that I've read so far.
3. The driving force of this paper: using the advantage function to weight the policy gradient is the best way to lower variance. This can be *further* developed by down-weighting rewards corresponding to delayed effects. 
4. "A step in the policy gradient direction should increase the probability of better-than-average actions and decrease the probability of worse-than average actions". This is a recurring idea and the best possible summary of why the advantage function is used at all.
5. So, the way that $$\lambda$$ is integrated from `TD($$\lambda$$)` into the policy gradient formulation is by
    1. Including a $$\gamma$$ term in the state value function and the action-value function,
    2. Using those new functions to define an advantage function, 
    3. Applying this new advantage function into the policy gradient definition.
6. Uh... the $$\gamma$$-just property is when the expected value of the policy gradient using your estimate is exactly the same as if you used the true discounted advantage function (which is unknown)? I'm a little confused on how to read this... what does this *mean*, practically speaking?
7. This has to be investigated. Instinctually I understand that this might be a useful idea, but I'm struggling to find practical examples to motivate this.

## Remarks
1. Had to stop here, I'm afraid. I have to attend a wedding tomorrow, which requires me to be up early. 
2. I suppose in a sense one ought to become comfortable with changes in schedule. That has definitely not happened to me yet...  
3. So tired my eyes are drooping...