---
layout: log 
title: Shuffering and shmiling
date: 2026-03-19
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* Read *Addressing Function Approximation Error in Actor-Critic Methods* by Fujimoto et al.  

## Notes
1. This paper introduces the *Twin Delayed Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient* method, also known as `TD3`.
2. Wait, what? Overestimation errors are also a feature of actor-critic methods?
3. "Our algorithm builds on Double Q-learning, by taking the minimum value between a pair of critics to limit overestimation." - This builds on the pirate analogy that I discussed in Literature Review 9. You are, in effect, using multiple critic networks to safeguard against overestimation errors. 
4. Alright, so the essence of the solution here is to employ a clipped Q-learning estimate so that *underestimates* are favored over overestimates. Underestimates are less likely to be propagated over the calculation via bootstrapping, so this is a significantly safer protocol. 
5. Hmmm. Target networks are apparently critical for the reduction of accumulated errors - they're the first technique that this paper advocates for. This is pretty weird to me given that the target network itself is typically not stationary for the most part.
6. The second technique is the delaying of policy updates until the value estimate has converged. Makes perfect sense - policy improvement follows value iteration.
7. Third technique: "A SARSA-style update bootstraps similar action estimates to further reduce variance". Remember, SARSA is just a means of on-policy updating the $Q$ function with the temporal difference error (as opposed to Q-learning, where the maximum reward is used for the update regardless of what action the agent actually takes).
8. One thing that I need to really settle in my mind: the *actor is the policy*. By which I mean that the parameterized network that selects actions is the actor. The critic is the value function. 
9. I think I get what is going on here. Overestimation errors occur in actor-critic methods when the actor selects actions based on a high-variance critic. Given that gradient descent is a local maximiser, subsequently trained policies will exploit the inaccurate value estimates.
10. Okay, so the issue with the DQN target network approach is that the current and target networks are typically too similar to make an independent estimation - they'll make the same kind of overestimation bias.
11. Right, here are the three main components of TD3:
    * **Clipped double Q-learning**: here, we use the same ideas as in DQN, but the *minimum* Q-value estimate is always taken for the update rule. This choice is what the paper means when it says "clipped".
    * **Delayed policy updates**: The actor is updated slower than the critic networks. This means that the critics have more opportunity to converge into stable estimators before the actor can use them to for exploration. 
    * **Target policy smoothing**: ~~This is a bit fuzzy for me.~~ No, I get it! A small amount of random noise is added to the action that the target action predicts. As a result, the critic is forced to learn that similar actions should all have similar values - you're blurring the peaks and effectively removing the discontinuous value estimates that emerge in noisy situations. This relates to expected-SARSA in that you value the expectation of a small region around that action: you're saying that "this action region is worth *roughly* X amount of reward" versus attempting exact estimates. Really interesting!
12. It's worth mentioning that these are *very* general techniques. You can add these to basically any actor-critic method, which also implies that there is a common-sense reason for why the techniques described work. I think the double-Q learning part and the target policy smoothing have reasonable interpretations, but delayed policy updates...?

## Remarks
* Could not work at all for half of the day. On the plus side, I'm still able to read, although it just took me about three hours to read this paper. 
* Note to self: *listen to your Indian partner when she tells you not to eat/drink something*. 