---
layout: log 
title: All in
date: 2026-07-21
math: True
tags: [foundation-models]
---

## Summary
1. Progress on reading *Build a Large Language Model (from scratch)* by Raschka, Chapter 2. 

## Foundation models
1. The idea of an "embedding" is highly general. The book mentions that you can convert a wide variety of different types of data into an embedding, from video data to audio. What about stock data? Trajectory data in general? Chemical data? The possibilities are endless.
2. "The primary purpose of embedding is to convert nonnumeric data into a format that neural networks can process". But wait - the diagram shows that data is passed through a neural network to be converted into an embedding. How come? Isn't the point of an embedding to allow for the data to passed through a neural network?  
3. **Retrieval augmented generation**: combination of generation and retrieval to pull relevant information when generating text.
4. LLMs have their own embeddings - got it. Pretty much the same as how the original transformer papers were written. This ensures that the embeddings are tailored to the task at hand. Got it!
5. Alright, so in this framework it seems that "tokenized text" is just a conversion from a large string to an appropriately broken up small string.
6. And we come to the answer of Point 2. The numbers associated to the words are actually their indices in a vocabulary. Got it!
7. All looks perfectly reasonable so far: tokenizers take text, break them into relevant pieces and map them to integer values based on a vocabulary. This is a one-to-one mapping, so it's possible to decide by simply reversing the steps.
8. The flaw of not being able to encode text that isn't in the vocabulary is very, very telling. However, a way of dealing with it (<|unk|>) appears to be an excellent workaround.
9. Byte pair encoding. Genius. What an elegant solution! The previous example now seems amateurish.
10. **Context size**: how many tokens are included in the input.
11. Okay, awesome: this is hearkening back to the ML that I'm used to. In LLM training, input target pairs are such that a sequence (defined by the context size) is mapped to the next word in the sequence. This is what provides the prediction target. 

## Remarks
1. I'm going about 90% in on LLMs. This is a genuinely *incredible* field of research and engineering and I want to get good enough at it to thoroughly understand the field. 
2. I don't want to throw away my RL work so far, though. I'm hoping that this will eventually pay off when I get to post-training and reasoning.