---
layout: log 
title: No fun and (Markov) games
date: 2026-04-07
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* Read *Markov games as a framework for multi-agent reinforcement learning* by Littman.
* More work on getting classical RL algorithms to work. 

## Notes
### Literature Review 
1. This paper elucidates a grip that I've had with regards to how self-play is conducted. Firstly, a multi-agent game is *definitely* not a MDP. Rather, it's a generalisation of an MDP where instead of a single action being sampled from the action states, you sample a tuple composed of action for each agent within the environment.
2. The reward function is also specific to to a Markov game in that it is independent to an agent. 
3. Ah, but there is a new condition here for the solution to a Markov game: the policy must maximise the expected sum of discounted rewards (V) *as well as remain undominated* by any other policy. Is there a situation where the former occurs but the latter doesn't?
4. The paper raises an example of measuring performance of an agent by evaluating each policy against the opponent that makes it look the worst. This is not very satisfying...
5. Of course the optimal policy for a Markov game is occasionally probabilistic. The rock-paper-scissors example makes this clear.
6. There is a another dimension to the Q-function that emerges when playing against an opponent: the opponent's next move. As such, The Bellman expectation equation naturally has to factor in another summation index ($$o$$ in the paper) in order to accurately assess the state-value and action-value functions. 
7. ... so why isn't it? In fact, why cant't this value simply be absorbed into the Markov decision process as an environment/observation variable?
8. The algorithm described is a pretty straightforward translation of Q-learning to the case where opponent actions are incorporated as well.
9. As a quick summary of the results, there is a very clear benefit in framing the problem in this way. Interesting... how does this translate to deep reinforcement learning results? 

### RL experiments
1. I am learning first hand the importance of a well written environment throughout the course of this process. 
2. I'm sure that my algorithms have been implemented correctly, but the sheer noise of my environment seems to make it very difficult to generate a consistent reward signal. Of course, the MDP that I've built is literally just a randomized set of tensors, so I'm not exactly expecting anything grand. However, the issue here is that I'm not getting anything *at all*.
3. **Key lesson**: the environment design is *extremely* important. An environment that is too noisy is not suited to a classical RL approach.
4. Tomorrow, I'm going to implement **grid-world**. 

## Remarks
1. I am still not where I want to be with regards to classical RL experiments. This wasn't supposed to take so long, but I want to do this right. I'm going to give myself until the end of the week to get this stuff working, no matter what it takes. 