---
layout: log
title: First literature review of the year
date: 2026-01-10
tags: [deep-learning, software-engineering]
---

## Summary
* Compiled my literature review into a single weekly post. 
* Finished some of the LeetGPU puzzles, but I think I'm going to switch to another means of practicing PyTorch.
* Make progress on *Effective Python* by Brett Slatkin.

## Notes
1. I don't think that my current means of practicing my PyTorch skills is suitable. I thought that using the shiny platforms with guided problem sets would be a nice way of easing myself into paper replication, but I've come to realise that it's better practice to just jump in and start implementing the damn papers. 
2. It's one thing to know the theory well, but I call myself a research *engineer*. Of course, my day job is in aerospace engineering and I get to practice those skills on a regular basis, but I really should be putting in some time every week to honing that most important of skills. As such, I decided to take a break from reinforcement learning today and spend some time reading *Effective Python* instead. 
3. I've used `Python` for 10 years. I've got a piecemeal understanding of a bunch of concepts and I'm pretty confident that I could, if I wanted to, write anything I want in `Python`. I think its time to put in a good amount of effort to unify my understanding of the language and learn how to use it to devastating effect. 

## Remarks
1. Going back and summarising my literature reviews was useful. I realised that something I thought was the case in my logs was actually not the case. This might turn out to be the most high-value part of this blog. 
2. This blog is almost certainly going be a bunch of mistakes that I eventually correct. :) 