---
layout: log 
title: Playing games whilst sick
date: 2026-04-12
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* Read relevant excerpts from Chapter 2 of Osbourne.
* Read the preamble material of OpenAI's *Spinning Up* course. 

## Notes
### Literature
1. **Strategic game with ordinal preferences**: A game consisting of a set of agents, each with their independently defined action profiles as well as defined preferences over the actions. Example:
    * **Agents**: a group of firms selling the same product. 
    * **Actions**: The range of prices each firm can set.
    * **Preferences**: The profit margins those firms will see based on the action.
2. It should be clearly noted that time is absent from the model. This doesn't mean that time isn't incorporated somehow! An action may involve activités that extend over time. They could for instance be a set of strategies that take place over a multi-day period. 
3. However, the player chooses their action once and for all and it is assumed that all other agents choose their actions simultaneously to the player.
4. It's really, really important to make sure that the preferences are well defined. The Prisoner's Dilemma is a really good example of this: there could be no deduction if the prisoners didn't care what strategy they chose.
5. **Note**: Strategic games are also called *Normal form* games.
6. A very basic assumption underlying reasoning in strategic games is that the structure of the game is common knowledge. Basically, players will always act in their own interest - they can't make mistakes and pick suboptimal choices. 
7. **Nash equilibrium**: A Nash equilibrium is an action profile $$a^*$$ with the property that no player $$i$$ can do better by choosing an action different from $$a_i^*$$, given that  every other player adheres to $$a_j^*$$. 
8. So basically, if every individual adheres to a Nash equilibrium, nobody would ever want to deviate from it. I watched a video on this once: *the legal system* reaches Nash equilibrium when every law contained within it is one that nobody would want to break even given the choice.
9. Ah, I see! It's a *no-regrets* situation. If you could go back and change *only* your move and you find that you wouldn't end up with a better result, you're in Nash equilibrium.
10. The notation is a little fiddly:
    * $$a^*$$ - the current package of all moves,
    * $$a^*_{-i}$$ - what everybody else is doing.
    * $$u_i(a^*) \geq u_i(a_i, a_{-i}^*)$$ - the condition that the payoff of your chosen action $$a^*$$ is higher than any other action $$a_i$$ that you could choose.

## RL Experiments
1. Taking an easier day today to go through some of the material in the *Spinning Up* course. I'll be putting in some derivations and starting my next technical note tomorrow. :) 

## Remarks
1. Still feeling a little off from the slight illness from yesterday, but I got some reasonable reading done today. :) 