---
layout: log 
title: Own it
date: 2026-05-03
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning, systems]
---

## Summary
* Consolidated the idea of ownership in Rust.

## Notes
### Systems
1. **What is the ownership system even trying to solve?** As in, what happens in C++ that doesn't happen in Rust because of ownership?
    * In C++, you can assign pointers as easily as anything. Indeed, you can throw up five pointers to an object in memory and the use one pointer to delete the memory entirely... *whilst the other pointers are still pointing.* You're left with four dangling pointers.
    * The ownership system acts as a strict set of policies that control access to data. You can almost think of it as a building site for a defense contractor, where everything is extremely carefully managed.
2. Let's flesh out this analogy:
    * A defense engineering facility can only be unlocked by a single master key, which in turn is held by the facility manager. If the owner locks up, the site is decommissioned and the space is made available for use by someone else.
    * The facility manager can provide the key to another worker (say, the foreman). However, if they provide the key to someone else, *responsibility for the site has moved* to the foreman.
    * The owner of the master key can provide temporary visitor passes to contractors who need to do the work. There are two kinds of visitor passes: 
        1. The need-to-know pass, which allows them to look around, learn about the site and look at the blueprints. When these visitors are in the site, the owner can't suddenly demand any changes to the site.
        2. The work permit, which allows a contractor to actively make changes to the data. **When a work permit has been issued, every NTK pass holder must leave**. Further, only one work permit holder can be within the site at any given time: this is to prevent two contractors from trying to work on the same equipment at the same time.
    * The owner is not allowed to close up as long as there are any visitor passes being issued. Likewise, they are also not allowed to give the master key to anybody else. Note however that closing up is typically done during a fixed time (closing) and everybody by rule must be out by closing time.
    * A security guard is present to ensure that visitors will never be around within the site after close-up. In fact, the guard is so zealous that he'll pretty much prevent the facility manager from even getting a key unless schedules are adjusted in time.
3. In this analogy,
    * Master-key owner <-> Variable
    * Locking up <-> Scope closure
    * Visitor passes <-> References
        * NTK pass <-> Immutable reference
        * Work permit <-> Mutable reference
    * Closing time <-> program termination 
    * Security guard <-> Borrow checker 
4. There are some variables - ints, bools - that don't require an analogy as a master key. These can just be copied: they're like simple note documents. 
5. I think the analogy is a *tiny* bit leaky, but I've got the mental model down. This is good.

## Remarks
1. I am behind on my reading. This has been a packed weekend... I was hoping to squeeze some more reading for a literature review, but I wasn't able to do that this weekend for a family event. 
2. For what it's worth, the reading that I need to do for the next week is based mostly on the same basic theme - I might skip the write-up for this week and then do a big write-up on Sunday. 