---
layout: log 
title: Just build the damn thing
date: 2026-07-07
math: True
tags: [deep-learning]
---

## Summary
1. Finished on *Tutorial on Variational Autoencoders* by Doersch.

## Notes
### Deep Learning
1. Okay, I get why the reparameterization trick works now. It's basically an active separation between the learnable parameters of a problem and the random variables necessary to carry out sampling - *not just* a means of "making random sampling differentiable".
    * The encoder network processes inputs and provides a mean and variance as output (with standard deviation calculated after).
    * The system generates a random constant vector from a 0-centered Gaussian with variance 1. 
    * The standard deviation is multiplied by the noise vector and this is added to the mean vector. However, the parameterized quantities - the mean and variance - aren't used to sample. They actually *aren't* treated as random variables. This was the major mismatch that I had in my mind.
2. I didn't even know you could sample by simply multiplying the mean and standard deviation. That's a really, really useful trick - it's also quite simple. Deceptively simple, even. 
3. I am now going to actually build a variational autoencoder. It was nice and all getting into the theory, but I'm realising that I much prefer to learn by building stuff. 

## Remarks 
1. Another late day. There's a lot of work to be done at work, so less time to spend on my own projects. Today was a quiet day, but I'm presuming at this point that my projects will be on the back burner for the whole week. 
2. Fell asleep whilst reading this paper! I had a dream about latent variables, which is interesting because the Dreamer papers treat the latent space as a dream. :) 