---
layout: log 
title: Experimentalism 
date: 2026-05-02
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning, systems]
---

## Summary
* Squeezed in some reinforcement learning experiments on `cartpole-v1`.
* Spent some time going through the ownership system in Rust. 

## Notes
### RL experiments
1. Squeezing in some tests on my `REINFORCE` algorithm in the early morning. 
    * After five thousand full training episodes, I'm getting a monotonically increasing reward that hits 250. This is compared to the 13 that the first run provided. 
    * Hm. *Hm*. Sounds not right. I'm not even considering variance here, although that will have to be included when I run my tests later on. 
    * Diggin around shows me that I need to be obtaining an average reward of 475+ within a hundred episodes to consider `cartpole-v1` solved. That... is nuts. 
2. I need a new way of iteratively carrying out improvements and assessing their effect. I'm *certain* that for such a simple problem I should be able to solve it with `REINFORCE`... 
3. What this calls for is actual hypothesis testing. I suppose the basic process is quite simple.
    1. The first stage is to fix all random seeds and make every bit of the code fully reproducible. This will be done to avoid random noise fortune.
    2. For at least ten seeds,
        * Carry out a training run for a 100 episodes, which is apparently the amount of time that is required to have the algorithm train
        * Save the trained policy,
        * Run a hundred episodes, 
        * Calculate the mean reward over the episodes as well as the variance.
    3. Carry out hypothesis testing to ensure that the means calculated over all the seeds fall within a 95% confidence interval,
    4. If goal is reached, terminate. Else, 
    5. **Make a hypothesis**. Implement the hypothesis and build another test that will check whether the new means returned by that test have improved the mean score by a statistically significant value. This is of course done by something like the t-distribution.

### Systems
1. I *somewhat* understand what the essence of ownership means in Rust. Basically,
    * All data in Rust is associated with an owner variable.
    * There can be one owner at a time,
    * Memory is freed when the owner goes out of scope.
Yeesh. This is not intuitive at all...

## Remarks
1. Slow day. I'm recovering still, but I'm definitely at a stage where I can work. I am however spending the weekend in London, though - tomorrow will be a hard study day, but for now I'm content taking it a little easier. 