---
layout: log 
title: Reading papers at a wedding
date: 2026-03-15
math: True
tags: [reinforcement-learning]
---

## Summary
* Finished reading *High-dimensional continuous control using generalized advantage estimation* by Schulman et al.  

## Notes
1. Spent a bit of time thinking about why the $$\gamma$$-just property is useful. It's basically a definition that classifies whether or not the $$\gamma$$ factor is well chosen or not. It it's too small, then you'll be focusing on short-term gains whereas a factor close to 1 will overly focus on long-range gains. A balance is needed to accurately represent the true advantage function, which is what the $$\gamma$$-just property indicates for some approximation. 
2. To note: $$\gamma$$ is about *bias*. We have to make sure that the parameter is well chosen to ensure an unbiased approximator (bias manifesting as myopia or far-sightedness).
3. Holy shit, I've got it.
    1. You can build an advantage function by taking telescoping sums comprising of weighted temporal difference errors. 
    2. The parameter that controls the telescoping is $$\lambda$$, whereas the discount is controlled by $$\gamma$$.
    3. The critical component of the full expression is the value function, which is of course approximated using the methods discussed in trust region policy optimisation.
    4. Remember: the value function is used as a baseline to reduce variance. That is the core of why it's estimated in the first place.
4. I'll have to give this paper a closer read to really understand the reward-shaping connection, but this can be done in my literature review during my flight back home. :) 
5. "Another enticing possibility is to use a shared function approximation architecture for the policy and the value function, while optimizing the policy using generalized advantage estimation" - a preview to the next paper. :) I've seen this technique being used in `stablebaselines3` already.

## Remarks
1. Rush job today - will sit and go through any relevant points in detail during my flight back. :) 