---
title: Multi-agent Reinforcement Learning - 1. Game-theoretic prerequisites
category: literature
math: True
---
# Multi-agent Reinforcement Learning 1 - Game-theoretic prerequisites
## Motivation 
I normally carry out a literature review every weekend. I collect that papers that I've read over the week, collect the notes that I've written about them, give the paper a once-over and then write up my understanding of the papers as a whole. I usually follow a theme over the week, reading papers that are either based around an overarching concept or follow a direct trajectory of research. 

Last week, I read three papers on the foundations of multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL). To say I actually *read* them is an overstatement. I *vaguely* understood what they were about after spending most of my reading time struggling to parse the mathematics or the overall themes. When I sat down on Monday to write up my literature review I realised that *I still had no idea what to cohesively write*. I hadn't generated enough insight into the last of the papers that I was supposed to have read. Upon closer examination I didn't really understand the two papers that I'd struggled through before it. What on Earth was I supposed to do for my literature review?

I don't want to get into the practice of pushing out content for the sake of pushing out content. I thus abandoned the idea of writing a literature review and decided to spend a bit of time examining exactly *why* I didn't understand these papers at all. I've spent the last four months diving into the theory and mechanics of reinforcement learning, so what was I missing here? 

I went through the last paper on the reading list. "Extensive games", "Normal form", "equilibria"... I knew what those words *meant* because I'd read about them on Wikipedia or something. However, they conjured no intuitive images for me - they were just nouns, devoid of essence. I realised that my issue wasn't that the papers were particularly hard, it was that *I lacked the language and the intuition to handle this content in the first place*. I very suddenly realised that multi-agent reinforcement learning is almost a misnomer. **Multi-agent reinforcement learning is a subdiscipline of game theory**, and reinforcement learning is applied as a means of setting up ideal game-theoretic scenarios. Trying to understand MARL without understanding game theory is reminiscient of trying to study chess without understanding what a checkmate is. 

I realised that if I wanted to make any progress in this field, I would have to undergo a shift from how I thought about reinforcement learning and optimization. The only way of carrying out this shift would be to bite the bullet and study game theory. I picked up a recommended text on game theory [1] and now, it's just a matter of forming a cognisant understanding of this field.

The questions that I'm trying to answer in this review are
1. What is the core problem of mult-agent reinforcement learning? How does it differ from single-agent reinforcement learning?
2. What is the nature of the *solution* to a multi-agent reinforcement learning problem?
3. Why do the heuristics applied to optimisation fail in the context of game-theoretic solutions?
4. Finally, given game-theoretic solutions, how do we actually *get* to those solutions?

## 1. Multi-agent decision making vs optimisation
Single-agent reinforcement learning, which we'll call RL, is conceptually a pretty simple enterprise. You get an agent and put it in an environment that has a reasonably well defined way of measuring reward. Let's be a little more precise in what we mean by agent and environment:
1. **Environment**: A Markov decision process that is equipped with a dynamical model, known as a transition function. Given a set of inputs $$a \in \mathcal{A}$$ and an initial state $$s \in \mathcal{S}$$, the dynamical model generates a next state $$s'$$ and a reward $$r$$. The *reward* is the most interesting part of the environment in that it is thoroughly arbitrary. Yes, it can be tied to realistic measures, but overall? It's a number *that must be maximised in aggregate*. 
2. **Agent**: an internalized representation of a decision-making metric, typically either a *value* function that allows the agent to query how "good" a state is with regards to the reward signal that the environment generates or a direct state-to-action mapping (known as the agen policy). These could be a simple as a table of values for every state in the game or an extremely complex and multi-layered neural network black box. In all scenarios, the agent is a collection of parameters that are tuned for the purpose of maximising the reward generated by the environment.

We can already see how deeply embedded the problem of RL is within the framework of *optimization*. Boiled down, we have parameters that we need to tune and a total reward that we need to maximise. Success is relative, typically, as you can't really prove that the solution you have is the best and a good solution is measured by how good it is with respect to the baseline.

Now, let's turn to multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL). It seems like you'd be able to do the same thing - set up an environment and instead of putting *one* agent, put in *multiple* agents. Simple, right? Wrong. The complications start to pile up, where
* The *environment* is no longer stationary. The transition function is now dependent on not just the agent actions, but also the actions of the opponents within the game. Further, *any objective that the environment is meant to represent is now dependent on the actions of the other agents*. 
* The idea of the reward as a single shared scalar value no longer makes sense. Each agent has it's own reward function and these could in many circumstances be contradictory to each other. For example, imagine a situation where you're rewarding your agents for solving a maze with as few movements as possible. Most of the agents realise that they can simply sit about whilst one of the harder-working agents explores the maze and incurs most of the negative reward. After that poor agent laboriously finds the exit to the maze and communicates the paths to the lazy agents, they can spring into action and minimize their own costs... leading to *those* agents having incurred the highest possible reward.

There are other concerns, but the above relate closely to the main thing I've realised with MARL: *the core assumption of optimization, where the minima and maxima of a single function are the objectives, break down in when dealing with multi-agent decision making*. There is no single quantity whose maximisation defines a solution, because in maximizing that quantity they end up exhibiting behaviour that is not optimal. 

By now, it's clear that we need a more appropriate language for some of these situations.
1. What does reward actually mean in the MARL context?
2. What does optimality mean here? What does suboptimality look like?
3. How does suboptimality in maximising a single reward come about?

## 2. Strategic games and equilibrium as fixed points
This language is most appropriately discussed in the context of game theory. We can frame the basic setting of MARL with respect to what is known as a *strategic game* or a normal form game. These are defined as $$\{N,\{A_i \}, \{ u_i \} \}$$, where
* $$N$$ is the number of players, 
* $$\{A_i \}$$ is the set of actions available to a player,
* $$\{u_i \}$$ is the payoff, or a function used to rank the outcome of each interaction between players. It ought to be noted the foundational use of a payoff function is to allow for ordinality between outcomes of a game.

In a strategic game, the players choose their actions simultaneously and with no knowledge of the opponent action. *However*, they are assumed to have a strong understanding of the game and the actions that their opponents might take. The aim of any player is to make the *best response* to all other actions that their opponents might carry out, or in formalism 

$$
a_i \in \arg\max_{a_i} u_i(a_i, a_{-i}).
$$

where, $$a_{-i}$$ represents the strategies of every opponent outside of the player. Another way of looking at this is as an operator, where

$$
\text{BR}(u_i, a_{-i}) = a_i,
$$

A student of optimisation at this point might say "Okay, simple - just pick the actions that maximise the payoff. Not even worth a simplex calculation!" Say you pick, on average, the action that will give you the highest payoff as your starting calculation.
The issue here is that when you pick an action, your opponent can pick the action that best counters you. You then must pick an action that counters her action, following which your opponent will adjust her action so that she picks that action that counters you...

... and so on, until you
* Go around in circles where you and your opponent keep picking strategies that beat the other. This is what one calls an *zero-sum cyclic* game.
* Reach a fixed point where changing your action doesn't yield a better pay off for either you or your opponent. Essentially, if *every* player repeatedly applies the best-response operator, you'll *maybe* get to a point where further application of the operator yields the same action for every opponent. 
 
*The latter* is what people refer to be Nash equilibrium (NE). However, this is also a crappy definition in explaining what NE actually is, which is a state when nobody wants to shift their strategy lest they find themselves in a sub-optimal action state. 

There are multiple situations where multiple Nash equilibria exist for one strategic game, and plenty of those equilibria
* aren't actually the best scenarios for everybody (a situation known as the tragedy of the commons where everybody is worse off, but nobody can deviate),
* or represent situations where the actual best NE is ambiguous, which leads to the idea of focal points.

There also scenarios in which there are *no* Nash equilibria for a single action. The transitive game is a classical example of this. In situations like this, one must move instead to a **mixed** equilibrium and abandon all hope of generating a "perfect" action all around.

## 3. Mixed strategies and indifference
A *mixed* equilibrium is a probability distribution over strategies that obeys the **indifference principle**. The basic idea here is that if you set your strategy probabilities in a way that that the opponents simply don't care about the expected payoffs of their own actions. In a state of mixed equilibrium, you've forced the hand of your opponent in a way that *no truly best move exists*. 

I used to think that mixed equilibria were a cop-out, a defensive strategy that is meant to win out over the long term (if you were lucky). I realised however that there are a few features of mixed equilibria that make the immensely powerful for adversarial and multiagent reasoning:
1. Mixed equilibrium is *true* unpredictability and, by definition, it is *unexploitable*. Consistent patterns can be countered and exploited, but a mixed strategy profile prevents your opponent from gaining an advantage in the first place. 
2. Whilst mixed equilibria is random, it is also deeply stable. If your opponent has no reason to care about her strategy, she'll find no reason to really change what she does. This is a stable point in the game!
3. By extension: if you play a mixed equilibrium then you cannot be exploited. As any poker player knows, however - *if your opponent does not play a mixed equilibrium, you can exploit her*.
4. A mixed equilibrium always exists within a strategic game. This proved by John Nash directly (and a really brief exposition is given in the next section). Discovring a mixed equilibrium is always possible (albeit hard).

One of the real insights that I got from going through the referenced MIT OpenCourseWare notes [2] is that mixed equilibria are continuous analogues of what is, in essence, a purely discrete problem. Finding mixed equilibria is somewhat akin to finding an optimum in a function, but there's a very precise difference: mixed equilibria are situations where your opponent is indifferent - a precise geometric condition of equality between weighted actions.

Note: I'm not really sure how mixed equilibria manifest (or are even useful) when dealing with cooperative games, mostly because *I haven't studied those*. I'm guessing that this might be a situation where you *don't* want to play a mixed equilibria because following a pure cooperation strategy would give you a better payoff overall. 

## 4. The mathematical nature of equilibrium
I mentioned how mixed equilibria are geometric conditions of equality. I'm also aware of what is known as the Lemke-Howson algorithm that boils the problem of finding a Nash equilibrium into finding a path over a geometric object (a polytope). Let's go into a little more detail regarding this (in a more general sense).

I mentioned before that when you seek mixed equilibria, you're working with a continuous analogue of a discrete problem. This really means that, given a set of actions $${a_i}$$, you can define a geometric shape where every point represents a specific blend of the strategies you have available. This is what is known as a *probability simplex* and the shape depends entirely on how many actions you have available (triangle for three actions, tetrahedron for four, so on). 

Now, if *every point in this shape* represents a mixture your actions, then it stands to reason that your opponent has a best response within the same shape. But hold on... if your opponent becomes indifferent between two actions, then they don't really care about the weights of those two actions in particular. In fact, a spectrum of solutions emerge that can be graphed as a line/surface/volume (based on the dimension) between those two choices in particular. 

Your opponent has a best response to your action. You can then generate a best response to *their* action. These will overlap and those overlaps represent the equilibrium between yours and your opponent's best responses. How do I know this? *Because this is what Nash directly proved*. 

In summary, we see that strategy spaces are geometric, best responses are lines within that geometry and *equilibria are intersections that provably exist*.

## 5. Limits of game-theoretic reasoning
Why was I struggling so much to understand this at first? What was the naivety in my understanding of strategic games that made most of the above unintuitive when I was trying read about it two weeks ago?

**Because I've been doing reinforcement learning experiments for a living recently**. I know for a fact that agents don't act rationally at all most times. You can see this in most literature, but especially in work by Gleave et. al. [3] where an agent is trained to attack a deep reinforcement learning trained policy by simply crouching in a sumo match. 
The point here is that most of the assumptions of game theory break down when in a learning environment. Firstly, *agents that are learning aren't necessarily being rational*. In fact, they almost certainly aren't because why would you even bother training them if they were?

The agents that I deal with in reinforcement learning operate under *bounded rationality* in which they do their best to be correct, but are constrained by available information and computational power. The basic violation of game-theoretic assumptions that occur here is that the idea of iterated elimation of dominant strategies immediately falls apart. To recap this, 
1. Say there are options in the strategic game where an player is strictly dominated by the opponent when it chooses an action.
2. The opponent, assuming that the player is rational, will assume that the player will never choose this action. 
3. But the player might not be rational. It might be a stupid RL agent that flings its own dung everywhere. 
4. But the rational opponent will think "...no sane opponent will do something like that."
5. The opponent gets a face full of crap. This comes with a very low payoff. In terms of *learning*, this means that a game-theoretically trained agent will leave themselves undefended against an action that they would never even consider. 

I did a bit of research around the kinds of equilibria that fall apart in scenario described in the last section. One very important example is the so-called trembling hand equilibrium, where strategy profiles remain stable even if players make small mistakes in their actions. As it happens, every finite game *also* has at least one trembling hand equilibrium - this result was proved by Richard Selten [4] 

The entire foundation of strategic analysis collapses at this point. Clearly, game theory is a *late* stage consideration... **it isn't sufficient during a process of learning**. There is an intermediary stage that must take place before true game theoretical learning can occur (although this is a topic for next week).

## 6. From static games to repeated interactions
If strategic games fall apart during the learning process, what can we do instead? Isn't this a crappy situation? If our agents fling crap around today, then how the hell are we supposed to get them to become hardened master strategists tomorrow?
We have to acknowledge that learning results in a *repeated* game. Games are no longer one-shot events when learning comes into play: equilibrium is something that we eventually get to, not something we can calculate immediately. Agents adapt, evolve and eventually... *hopefully*, they get to a point where they can truly act in a way where rationalization makes sense. 

The intermediary stage is described precisely by considering learning dynamics, specifically in the problem of *regret minimization*. This will be the topic for next week's study. :) 

## 7. Summary
This ended up taking way more time than I thought it would, as well as being *way* larger than I anticipated it to be. Just to summarise for anybody who doesn't want to wade through reams of text,
1. Optimization doesn't make sense in adversarial situations because your opponent adapts to your solution. Thinking in like an optimisation practitioner is limiting - the true mode of thinking for this scenario is *game theory*. 
2. You can adapt to your opponent, who can then adapt to you... and so on, until *eventually* you find yourself in a fixed point called a Nash equilibrium.
3. Sometimes, Nash equilibria don't exist in a pure form. An alternative concept, mixed equilibria, emerges as a consequence of randomizing your selected actions based on a given probability distribution. If you choose your probability distribution wisely, you'll become *unexploitable* - your opponent, then, becomes indifferent to your action and will choose a spectrum of actions without preference. 
4. This entire scenario of mixed equilibria can be represented geometrically. The equilibrium turns out to be an intersection point between the best responses that you and your opponent can employ.
5. This is all well and good, but there are deep limits of game-theoretic reasoning that are founded upon the idea of *rationality*. The process of learning naturally introduces a bound on this rationality, so trying to *learn* the best strategy becomes difficult. 
6. As a result, for those interested in *learning* strategies, we have to shift our perspective from the purely game-theoretic strategic situation to the messy, gradual process of regret minimization. 

## References
[1] *Introduction to Game Theory* - Osbourne (2000)

[2] 14.12 - Economic Applications of Game Theory - MIT OpenCourseWare [link](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/14-12-economic-applications-of-game-theory-fall-2012/pages/lecture-notes/)

[3] [Adversarial Policies: Attacking Deep Reinforcement Learning - Gleave et. al. 2019](https://arxiv.org/abs/1905.10615)

[4] [Reexamination of the perfectness concept for equilibrium points in extensive games - Richard Selten (1975)](https://pub.uni-bielefeld.de/record/2909636)