---
title: "Proximal Policy Optimization, layer by layer"
category: technical
math: True
---

# Proximal Policy Optimization, bit by bit
Proximal policy optimization (PPO) is a workhorse of modern deep reinforcement learning. It's an advancement on the standard Actor-Critic algorithm (discussed [here](https://aravinthen.github.io/2026/04/18/reinforce/)) that deals with the problem of training instability. It also, for the most part, appears *simple*: the core of the change is conceptually easy to describe and not particularly challenging to implement. An undergrad could probably whip together a PPO implementation without even understanding it. 

That being said, PPO as described in the original paper [1] builds upon layers. There are a range of improvements that are made to the basic Actor-Critic idea: a set of approximations and notions that are layered on top of the core algorithm until the result is a powerful and efficient tool for control. The algorithm itself necessitates the use of some complex diagnostic tools, each of which requires non-trivial interpretation. I've used out-of-the-box PPO implementations. 

Now, if I were to add to the megabytes of existing exposition on this subject, how would I go about it? Most of the articles that I've read about the method discuss it in isolation: there's usually a theory section that gives way to experiments and implementation. I want to do something different: my goal is to take the standard Actor-Critic algorithm and build it bit by bit into the PPO algorithm described in the original paper. I'm going to evaluate each point step-by-step, with research engineer rigour, to clearly quantify how each idea contributing to PPO improves the performance of the calculation. 

## The Core: Actor-Critic
I've built Actor-Critic before as an extension of the REINFORCE and REINFORCE+baseline algorithms. However, this time I think it would be prudent to build Actor-Critic from scratch, with a bespoke architecture for piece-by-piece experimentation. 

## Stabilizing the advantage estimate: Generalized advantage estimaton 
Done. Write-up pending...

## Batched Advantage Actor-Critic 
Done. Write-up pending...

## Finally, PPO 
In progress...

## Why was this so hard?
Not started...

## Conclusion
Not started...

## References
[1] Schulman, J., Wolski, F., Dhariwal, P., Radford, A., & Klimov, O. (2017). Proximal Policy Optimization Algorithms. arXiv preprint arXiv:1707.06347.
